The wicked social control experiment using virus as the pretext for further enslavement is performing magnificently by implanting a sense of helplessness, dependence, and blind conformism. It should be noted that the favorable atmosphere enabling Them (whoever they are) to accomplish just that was contrived by the controlled and unscrupulous media in under a month of intense, coordinated, global brainwashing. Praise is in order, not for the obviously immoral master plan but for the technical excellence of its execution. In the subservient Balkans, local quislings have expectedly introduced a practically region-wide state of emergency, giving that ignoble set of local petty tyrants broad powers to impose controls and reorder the pattern of everyday life. Hardly noticed by anyone, the operation has closely followed the choreography set by Germany’s infamous Ermächtigungsgesetz of 1933, the immediate pretext being the only major substantive difference between them. Similar restrictions and intrusions have been enjoined in all the leading “western democracies” as well.

The background of the induced panic has been dealt with cogently and extensively by Prof. Igor Panarin (here and here). An indirect corroboration for Prof. Panarin’s “hypotheses” (as he modestly likes to call them) is the official redesignation of the heretofore bland sounding “COVID-19” as the “Chinese virus”, personalizing at last the malignant invisible enemy. German physician Dr. Wolfgang Wodarg has argued that corona has been known for decades to be an integral part of the viral structures attacking our bodies on an annual basis, to which the human immune system has by and large successfully adapted,

It seems that the enemy’s sudden onslaught was anything but unanticipated, however. Curiously, evidence has just emerged that a few months before the viral outbreak that is shaking the world, on October 18 2019, an interesting gathering was hosted in New York City by Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, Bloomberg School Of Public Health, World Economic Forum, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It was organized under the code-like name of “Event 201.” The gathering received scant media attention and the remarkable prescience of its participants was left completely and unjustly unremarked. To add another curious detail to these proceedings, one of the key players, Bill Gates, turns out to be a known champion of (a) radical population control (and here ) , and (b) mass vaccination. Without casting any aspersions, it just so happens that in practical terms the two issues are closely entwined. Mass vaccinations, preferably starting with the forced vaccination of very young children with substances of unknown but suspicious provenance and composition, may be but a step in the population control program, whether by directly injecting debilitating conditions and diseases or provoking sterility, which ultimately comes down to the same thing.

Indeed, the biggest “known unknown” (as once someone famously put it) of the coronavirus affair may be precisely the nature of the vaccine which will probably be generated by the same pharmaceutical establishments which so presciently foretold the onset of the current crisis. Since the crisis was elevated to a global level, it is not beyond belief that the remedy will also be imposed globally. The reputedly high infectiousness of this sinister “Chinese virus” may be a perfect excuse for doing away with inconveniences like choice, and suchlike niceties, once it is decreed that everyone is required to submit meekly to the injection of the opaque substance billed as just-in-the-nick-of-time solution for the distressed world.

Which brings us to another curiosity striking the alert observer whose television set, of course, is permanently turned off or, if it is switched on. it is for nothing more prosaic than to watch cooking shows. Forget high government officials who have dropped dead in the sanctioned and embargoed Middle Eastern country which bears the brunt of the public animosity of the Western world. They deserve it, naturally, because they hate our freedoms. But one is hard put to explain, never mind justify, the virus’ apparent easy access to many high-profile Western figures, many of them conspicuous in public life or the world of entertainment. Their susceptibility guarantees the wide dissemination of the message that Covid-19 is no respecter of persons and that if it happened to them, you may be next. To mention just a few of these luminaries, testing positive so far have been the Game of Thrones actor Kristofer Hivju, Hollywood star Idris Elba, and the rightfully famous Tom Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson, not to mention sports figures such as Kevin Durant or even former NATO Secretary General Javier Solana, whose misfortune is unlikely to encounter any sympathy in Serbia. Why are these high-profile infections curious? Because these are people who do not walk the crowded streets or use public transport; typically they glide around in their limousines. How did they get infected? Or were they, perhaps, exemplarily and discreetly infected precisely in order to maintain the believers in official facts in a hysteric state and to drive home the point that the day of reckoning is indeed nigh.

We still can only speculate about much to do with this vicious plague. But all is not darkness, as we learn from this sermon by a wonderful American Orthodox priest, Father Josiah Trenham, “Virus chaos and Christian fearlessness.” It could not have been said better.