The Slums Of Southern Europe, The New Slave Market Of The EU, And The Coronavirus

It looks like a refugee camp in Syria or Turkey, but in fact, it‘s Spain, the Southern Coast Almeria, Andalusia. Similar camps are to be found in Italy: Sicily and Calabria, the Southern parts of Italy where the migrants are helped by friendly EU-sponsored NGOs to come ashore from all parts of Africa and be used in the new slave market.

The southern parts of Italy and Spain are becoming the “African“ slums of Europe, where hundreds of thousands of African migrant workers live under circumstances similar to, or perhaps even worse than, the slaves who worked on US cotton farms in the the 19th century.

The supermarkets are full of cheap fruits and vegetables. Most of the goods come from Spain, but Italy is also an important supplier. How can countries produce so cheaply? A video reveals catastrophic working conditions. Spain and Italy provide us, the Europeans, with cheap fruits and vegetables, oranges, mandarins, tomatoes, and cucumbers. The big supermarkets of Europe, like Aldi, REWE, Lidl,Carrefour, Albert-Hein (called Albert in Eastern European countries) dictate the prices to the companies in Spain and Italy, who are subsidized by the European Union (EU).

The EU has created a slave working force in the southern countries and subsidizes the big companies there with EU tax money. It makes you wonder and explains, on the other hand, the EU migration policy. They want “new” working slaves, like in Roman times, to provide the bourgeoisie with cheap fresh food and vegetables.

The work on the fruit and vegetable farms, proposed by companies and accepted by workers, is without any contract. It's also without insurance and security guarantees in the workplace. The irregular migrants (those without legal permits) are being exploited by accepting these forms of work. Because they are working without a contract, they cannot ask for a residence permit, and vice versa; on the other hand, because they cannot claim rights as workers, except in cases where physical violence is suffered, they therefore remain victims of serious labor exploitation.

Almeria, the southern part of Spain, hosts the biggestslums, which are set on an arid patch of wasteland outside the small town of San Isidro. Almeria hosts the world's largest concentration of greenhouses. Covering over 31,000 hectares (76,600 acres) and visible from space, Almeria's "sea of plastic" produces roughly 3.5 million tonnes of fruit and vegetables per year. According to the regional distribution company Agrosol, 61% of Almeria's production is exported, with 99.8% bound for Europe – the Netherlands (13.55%), France (13.5%) and the UK (11.4%) being the top markets.

Tomatoes: Germany (253,603,412 tonnes), the UK (145,786,239 tonnes) and the Netherlands (108,809,177 tonnes)

Pepper: Germany (289,784,484 tonnes), France (117,876,979 tonnes) and the Netherlands (91,559,489 tonnes) Cucumber: Germany (176,469,357 tonnes), the Netherlands (63,069,737 tonnes) and the UK (59,003,974 tonnes).

This leads to a weird situation. Whoever in the Netherlands thinks that they're eating Dutch tomatoes is tricked since it’s all from the slave market in Spain. In reality, what is referred to as Almeria's "economic miracle" among Spanish economists, is almost exclusively dependent on an invisible, expendable, illegally employed migrant worker force working under 40-degree heat and extreme humidity. They live in slums, and when they can't cope anymore, another boat of "refugees" is waiting to come ashore and replace them.

Coronavirus

The coronavirus is getting out of control in the EU, especially in Italy and Spain. With these two being the suppliers of nearly all our fruit and vegetables, Europe may face a shortage of these products. Since a few days ago, there are riots in Southern Italy, a bad sign for the EU's import of fruits and vegetables from the slave market. If the lockdown continues, the prices will increase. On the other hand, the harvest of asparagus and apples is in danger in Germany and the Netherlands because these EU countries are dependent on the labor force from Romania, Bulgaria, and Poland. They harvest the asparagus and apples since there are no German or Dutch workers who want to do these kinds of jobs.

The EU is at its end, which is painfully clear. Like in the old Roman Empire, the Vandalen brought upheaval to the Empire and eventually it broke down. This is what we see right now. The EU countries are unable to help each other, getting help from Russia and China instead, which the EU governments try to label as propaganda. The healthcare system has broken down a long time already. They don’t have masks, no electronic fever thermometers, and are imposing martial law.

When they continue with the lockdown, it will be the end of Europe as we knew it. Russia and China will rise, and more and more EU countries know that “brotherhood” is non-existent. The slave workers will move on, and Europe will face the biggest crisis that it's ever seen.