Donate

During the past week, the center of the coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19) officially moved from China to the European Union. Italy already overcame the number of active cases in China.

Furthermore, Italy demonstares sky-high numbers of deaths and total coronavirus cases per a million of population. In aprticular, open sources numbers show that every fourteenth person affected by coronavirus in Italy dies. These numbers cause reasonable questions because there are not so much explanations of the observed crisis in Europe. So, the entire Italian government is disfunctional and demonstrates a criminal negligence, or the available statistics exaggerates the scale of crisis. If one supposes that the Italian government is interested in fueling the hysteria and crisis to achieve some own goals (to support the global campaign in the field or gain tactical economic benefits as additional funding from the EU), it may look that authorities count any virus infection death or even deaths caused some other reasons as coronavirus-caused deaths.

The European developments followed the official Chinese declaration of conerns regarding the possibiltiy that the coronavirus outbreak may have been a preplanned action (Beijing blamed the US military) aimed against China and the entire crisis is being manipulated to fuel instability and further.

The coronavirus hysteria rapidly expanded into other European countries (even not really affected by the oubreak) and even Russia. The Russian opposition media and representatives of the so-called neo-liberal part of the elite are already cry foul about the supposed coronavirus-related problems. According to them, the country is ‘fully unprepared’ to fight the possible outbreak. These claims are being supported by a large-scale media campaign in the field.

It’s interesting to note that all of these happens amid the chaos on the oil market (caused by Saudi agressive actions on it), constitutional reforms in Russia and the escalation of the Iranian-US tensions in the Middle East (Iran is currently suffering from coronavirus-related issues with over 12,000 active cases).

The large-scale diplomatic and media efforts to paint the coronavirus oubtreak as a large-scale threat and the timing of developments demonstrate allow to suggest that forces related to the global establishment are intentionally exploiting and fueling the crisis (or even contributed to its start) in order to achieve own goals. The COVID-19 issue is already used to explain the upcoming global economic crisis (which is barely caused by the virus itself), and will likely be used among the tools used to distabilize situation inside the countries opposing the neo-liberal world order: China, Russia and Iran.

Modern “liberalism” (often called “neo-liberalism”) is the ideology of serving to global financial monopolies and market speculators in general. The goal of such “liberals” is to increase their personal level of consumption with the minimal possible intellectual and physical work, using the margin simplification of modern communications and IT technologies, for satisfying their selfish, mainly bodily, desires covering them under the guise of post-modern sophistry. Thus, they swallow public resources undermining the steadily development of the humanity.

MORE ON THE TOPIC:

Donate