COVID-19: Some Thoughts On The Impending Collapse Of The State

Many places will be taken over by a kind of permanent, low-intensity civil war, as predicted by Israeli military historian Martin van Creveld. Western Europe will begin to look a lot like Libya after the NATO intervention, war-torn Yemen or Syria. Governments facing increased breakdown of law and order will tend to resort to violent repression and some may succeed in clinging to power that way. Others will be overthrown, setting off an endless chain of power grabs and armed political struggle. Civil war may come to many places.

Most people living the “West” have been telling themselves they were citizens of a democratic state. Not surprising, since they were taught this in school and have been hearing the same ever since from their media. Few realize that the much-vaunted democracies they reside in, are at best just badly disguised plutocracies, certainly since the Fall of the Berlin Wall, when neoliberal capitalism was adopted as the universal state ideology in the “West.” This has led to the establishment of what may be properly called kakistocracy, the Greek word for rule by the worst elements in society. Since the availability of easy money has siphoned off many otherwise capable and talented people to the world of business and banking, politics has been abandoned to men (and women) without qualities. Effortlessly adopting whatever form, stance or position only to get ahead in the world and line their pockets along the way, most of these new generation politicians have no morals, no intelligence, no principles, no ideas, nothing.

The choices made by “Western” governments in response to the “corona pandemic” are a case in point. From the point of view of medicine and public health, the dreaded coronavirus is not a serious problem. Sure enough, the World Health Organization, headed by a politician with a dodgy past and funded largely by Bill Gates, has officially declared a pandemic. In response, one “Western” government after another has declared a national emergency and put the country in lockdown. As a result, millions and millions are now losing their jobs and entire national economies are made to suffer irreparable damage, yet aggregate average monthly death rates are not even higher than in 2019, 2018 and 2017. From the very beginning, aided by a supine press, governments have been fiddling with the numbers, going to extremes to give the impression that the coronavirus death toll is appalling.

The question arises as to why a responsible government would want to wreck the national economy, cause incredible personal suffering by forbidding people to leave their homes, and to wreak irreparable social havoc al for the sake of a handful of fat, unhealthy elderly citizens with respiratory problems caused by the virus? Most of these patients had a very low life expectancy to begin with, then why overburden and imperil the entire heath care system? Are those the policies that a responsible government would adopt? If so, that would give the word “responsible” a whole new meaning.

Only a government without a grasp of reality, with a total lack of ethical and political principles, accustomed to trampling on the rights of citizens for decades, would decree a total lockdown just to save a few people, or a government that would be taking orders from some unknown higher authority. But let us not go in that direction for the moment. Let us assume the lockdowns were ordered by incompetent and irresponsible leaders. The next question then should be if those governments were aware of the possible consequences of their decrees.

What might these consequences be? In the first place, widespread bankruptcies. As a result of government-ordered closing, countless retailers, bars, and restaurants will disappear, forever changing inner cities. Many small industries will also have to close down. Big players like Amazon, Starbucks and assorted fast food giants will gladly fill any gaps, which means that those laid off as a result of bankruptcies will be forced to either take low-paid wage-slave work or be without a job for many years to come. GNP will shrink everywhere, and average incomes will drop sharply. Faced with high budget deficits, governments will have to resort to widespread tax increases, causing even more social misery. Crime rates will soar, inner cities and many residential areas will morph into no-go areas. Many cities will begin to look like Dearborn, Michigan.

Secondly, most people will have lost their trust in government, while many will be very angry and try to oppose, subvert and sabotage government policies. Very likely, most “Western” governments will face a legitimacy crisis never seen before. Government authority is likely to crumble everywhere, except in those few areas where the rich assemble, living in permanent fear of the rabble's wrath.

Many places will be taken over by a kind of permanent, low-intensity civil war, as predicted by Israeli military historian Martin van Creveld. Western Europe will begin to look a lot like Libya after the NATO intervention, war-torn Yemen or Syria. Governments facing increased breakdown of law and order will tend to resort to violent repression and some may succeed in clinging to power that way. Others will be overthrown, setting off an endless chain of power grabs and armed political struggle. Civil war may come to many places.

Would all those fools still in power have realized such might be the result of their hypocritical decision to “protect the citizens against COVID-19?” If they haven't, it might actually be kind of reassuring.

If they have and the current socio-economic destruction is intentional, it would mean their objective is precisely that: to destroy the economy, to drive the citizens to despair and to roll out a totalitarian state.