COVID-19 Is Used As A Tool Of Fear And Terror By The EU

Fear is being spread around us by the establishment through the mass media (MSM). Common sense is gone and mass hysteria is the new normal. A virus, COVID-19, is used to control the lives of people, and it's also a tool of suppression against the population.

I am not going to claim whether there is a virus or not, whether it’s as dangerous as they say, or where it originated, be it in a laboratory or bio-weapon or a real virus. I only see that it has brought fear and, already in some EU countries, terror among the population.

Easter 2020; where EU governments forbid us to see our beloved ones, where EU governments forbid us to travel, where most of us lose their income because they forbid us to work and take our bread without compensation. Where they tell us to wait until there is a vaccination from Bill Gates and his sponsors, the criminal gang of the Rockefellers (sponsors of the John Hopkins University). They are controlling our lives, our children's lives. If there is a virus, we can protect the elderly and sick but not destroy whole nations and people. I laughed about conspiracy thinkers in the past, but a lot of it is now reality and “new normal” as they call it. It’s 1984, and we didn’t do a thing to stop it, maybe it was too overwhelming.

EU Statement

The EU is mistreating, according to the law, the elderly and sick. You can't forbid people from seeing their old mothers and fathers, or even holding a funeral for them, that is really criminal. Ursula Von der Leyen, head of the EU, also expects that: "elderly people in care homes cannot be visited as long as there is no vaccine. I know that's difficult, but it's about human lives”, she said. “We have to be disciplined and be very patient". "We will have to live with the virus for months, probably until next year." So many elderly and sick will die without saying goodbye to their beloved ones for almost a year? How cruel. Also, she dictates that we are not allowed to book a trip or holiday, meaning we have to wait for vaccinations and forcibly be vaccinated, also a violation of human rights and freedom. This is especially so when scientists say that younger people are not dying, and weren’t we told ten or twenty years ago that the best way to catch a cold so that we get a better immune system? All of that is thrown out, and according to the EU (German- and French-dominated), our lives will never be the same after COVID-19, how frightening! China is partly back to normal, so why drive people to suicide or hunt them like criminals? Because it’s not about the virus anymore, but about power.

The New Normal

Ready for the one and a half meter society? "We will have to look for the new normal in the one and a half meter society," Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands, the head of the EU, and Bundespresident Steinmeier of Germany declared, independent from each other, but on the same time on their national TV stations. “We are still in the middle of the corona crisis, although the number of new deaths and registered infections is leveling off”. “We can get a normal summer out of our minds, because measures will remain in force even after April 28", they declared as well, meaning lockdown until at least September, or if and when there is a vaccination. Is this democracy? These are the signs of a totalitarian EU body which wants to control the lives of people from birth to death, where they control even our deaths, without proper funerals and loved ones. These are statements not to be made by so-called “democratic” countries, their rhetoric is an Orwellian message to us, the “free” citizens of Europe.

Eurobonds

A solidarity fund to ensure that the poorest countries in the EU, like Italy, Spain and Greece -- the countries who, by the way, have been hit the hardest by the COVID-19 crisis and have their countries full of migrants and migrant workers toiling for the rich German supermarkets --pay low interest on their bonds has been taken off the table. Ironically, the richest countries, the Netherlands and Germany, voted against it, while France is silent on this matter. How dare they speak about solidarity, it’s people who are dying, not the Italian government, the people in the streets of Naples, Sicily, and small towns in southern Italy are not dying from COVID-19 but from hunger and suicide. They ask us, the citizens of the EU, to show solidarity, but we can’t because the EU is not for us since it only show ssolidarity with money for themselves and not for us. We are heading towards the suppression and loss of our freedom, a virus was needed and we gave up all our human rights, but this whole process started already in 2015 during the illegal wars in the Middle East.