An ambassador from China has praised Hillary Clinton for attacking President Trump’s “racist rhetoric” in dealing with the coronavirus outbreak.

“The president is turning to racist rhetoric to distract from his failures to take the coronavirus seriously early on, make tests widely available, and adequately prepare the country for a period of crisis,” Clinton complained on Twitter on Wednesday.

“Don’t fall for it. Don’t let your friends and family fall for it.”

The president is turning to racist rhetoric to distract from his failures to take the coronavirus seriously early on, make tests widely available, and adequately prepare the country for a period of crisis.



Don't fall for it. Don't let your friends and family fall for it. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 18, 2020

This prompted Lin Songtian, the Chinese ambassador to South Africa, to share a tweet from Chinese state media praising Hillary’s critique of Trump:

It is true. Justice always speak loudly. https://t.co/kZjcYccFPg — Chinese Ambassador to South Africa (@AmbLINSongtian) March 20, 2020

Breitbart.com reports: The attached article listed several Americans, namely Clinton and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA), criticizing Trump for blaming China.

“It is true,” Lin wrote regarding Clinton’s attack that Trump calling coronavirus a “Chinese virus” is “racist rhetoric.”

“Justice always speak [sic] loudly.”

Clinton has repeatedly taken potshots at Trump during the coronavirus crisis.

“Hospitals are already running out of ventilators and beds. Nurses are using bandanas as masks,” she typed on Thursday.

“If you’ve already ordered more with the Defense Production Act, tell us now,” she demanded.

Let’s try this again, @realdonaldtrump:



Hospitals are already running out of ventilators and beds. Nurses are using bandanas as masks.



If you’ve already ordered more with the Defense Production Act, tell us now.



If you haven’t, you’re failing to lead and failing Americans. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 19, 2020

“If you haven’t, you’re failing to lead and failing Americans,” she lectured.

That was an action Trump took the prior day.

NPR reported:

The law contains a section that authorizes the president to control the production and distribution of scarce materials deemed “essential to the national defense.” In his executive order, Trump specifically cites protective equipment (presumably face masks) and ventilators as meeting the criteria in this provision.

On Thursday, Vice President Mike Pence said, “We’ve extended the liability protection so now all the industrial masks that are manufactured as N95s are now available to hospitals, and we’re seeing a dramatic increase in production.”

He added, “Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory that was destined for Mexico to produce another 120 million masks per year. 3M is increasing output to 420 million masks per year.”