The idea that billionaire vaccine enthusiast Bill Gates was involved in the creation and spread of coronavirus in order to have the opportunity to microchip the world population ‘is open for vigorous debate‘, according to longtime Trump advisor Roger Stone.

Speaking on The Joe Piscopo Show, Stone said: ‘Here is what I do know for certain. He and other globalists are definitely using it for mandatory vaccinations and microchipping people so we know if they’ve been tested.

‘Over my dead body. Mandatory vaccinations? No way, Jose!‘

Stone – who was sentenced to 40 months in prison in February – continued: ‘I have conservative friends who say it’s ridiculous and others say absolutely.’

Bill Gates has donated around $45 billion towards vaccination research to tackle pandemics and is at the forefront of efforts to create a vaccine for the coronavirus, announcing he will spends billions on the project this year.

RELATED: Bill Gates’ Instagram Page Flooded With People Calling For His Arrest For ‘Crimes Against Humanity’

DailyMail report: Stone also spoke of his own Florida lockdown and said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has done a ‘good job’.

Gates has slammed world leaders for not investing in testing and equipment sooner when the virus first came to light in China last December.

Roger Stone was sentenced to 40 months in prison in February after being found guilty of obstructing the House investigation into whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia to influence the 2016 election.

The billionaire, who along with his wife Melinda have worked to fund the development of vaccines around the world, slammed governments for not preparing for a pandemic by simulating possible scenarios and stress-testing their infrastructure.

As a result of this lack of preparation, Gates said ‘we find ourselves in uncharted territories’.

RELATED: Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Slams Bill Gates’ ‘God-like Willingness To Experiment With The Lives of Lesser Humans’

Chairing the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, he has donated more than $45 billion towards vaccination research in the hope of tackling pandemics including coronavirus and Ebola.

The couple have long spoken about the fears of a pandemic and had warned that the world was not prepared to respond at a global level.

Melinda Gates said the world is likely to be permanently changed by the pandemic and predicted there could more similar outbreaks in the future.

Stone said of his own lockdown in Florida: ‘Like most Americans, we’re hunkered down. It gives you time to spend with the family, time to write, and pray.

‘It has its pluses, but every gym in Florida is closed, when I can’t go to the gym, it drives me crazy.’

Stone also said New York governor Andrew Cuomo has ‘done a very good job’ adding: ‘He’s a strong communicator, he speaks the people’s language.‘

But said in order for Cuomo to emerge as a presidential candidate Joe ‘Biden would have to get hit by a bus‘.

Stone added: ‘God forbid we’re not for that. I think [a Cuomo nomination is] a fantasy by the Democrats who see Biden as an intrinsically weak candidate.’

Stone will not have to serve his sentence until a ruling on his defense appeal.

He was sentenced to more than three years in prison for obstructing a congressional investigation in a case that has sparked fears about presidential interference in the justice system.

He was convicted in November on all seven counts of an indictment that accused him of lying to Congress, tampering with a witness and obstructing the House investigation into whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia to tip the 2016 election.