Failed presidential candidate Hillary Clinton blasted President Trump on Wednesday, accusing him of employing “racist rhetoric” after he correctly pointed out that coronavirus is a “Chinese virus.”

“The president is turning to racist rhetoric to distract from his failures to take the coronavirus seriously early on, make tests widely available, and adequately prepare the country for a period of crisis,” Clinton fumed on Twitter.

“Don’t fall for it. Don’t let your friends and family fall for it,” she warned.

The president is turning to racist rhetoric to distract from his failures to take the coronavirus seriously early on, make tests widely available, and adequately prepare the country for a period of crisis.



Don't fall for it. Don't let your friends and family fall for it. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 18, 2020

Breitbart.com reports: On Tuesday, Trump defended calling the disease a “Chinese virus,” an illness that originated in Wuhan, China.

“I have to call it where it came from, it did come from China, so I think it’s a very accurate term,” he said during a press conference.

The president said he began using the term after China attempted to claim the U.S. military was the source of the virus.

“Well, China was putting out information which was false, that our military gave this to them, that was false,” Trump said.

He denied referring to China in the name would create a “stigma.”

“No I don’t think so. I think that saying our military gave it to them creates a stigma,” Trump said.

On Monday, Trump wrote the U.S. would assist industries affected by the “Chinese Virus.”

The United States will be powerfully supporting those industries, like Airlines and others, that are particularly affected by the Chinese Virus. We will be stronger than ever before! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 16, 2020

“The United States will be powerfully supporting those industries, like Airlines and others, that are particularly affected by the Chinese Virus,” he said.

“We will be stronger than ever before!”