A New York City man who was released from prison due to coronavirus fears has been caught on camera breaking a disabled man’s arm in the street during a robbery.

Video footage shows the convicted felon violently wrestle $80 from the 62-year-old victim’s hand, causing the injury.

Here’s what the radical left’s “compassionate” push for widespread jail and prison releases leads to — a beaten and robbed 62-year-old man.

NYPost report:

As we’ve noted, it makes sense to release some inmates amid the coronavirus crisis: Jails and prisons just don’t allow for much social distancing, and over-60 convicts, especially, face much greater dangers from the bug and are far less likely than younger ones to re-offend if released.

If high-risk people have a safe place to go, and don’t pose a threat to civilians, mercy is called for.

But among the 1,100 prisoners that Gov. Andrew Cuomo released last month was one Daniel Vargas, 29, whose dozen-plus priors included assault, robbery weapons possessions and burglary.

He’s now being held on $50,000 bail on new charges of robbery, grand larceny and assault for allegedly attacking an elderly man leaving a bodega with a cane in The Bronx shortly after 8 a.m. on Tuesday.

According to the complaint, Vargas demanded his money, then beat him when he refused, finally getting away with $80.

The old man now won’t take his cash back, for fear the money might be contaminated with COVID-19.

“Wherever we can get people out of jails, out of prisons, now, we are,” Cuomo declared as he announced the releases, noting that he was springing “people who are in jails because they violated parole for non-serious reasons.”

Huh? Whatever the reason someone’s locked up, mercy should take the threat that a release could pose to the general public into account.

Right now, New Yorkers really don’t need something else to worry about. Set a wiser standard, governor — and have your people do a better job of vetting.

Surveillance video shows Vargas eyeing Richard Goetschius, 62, as he limps into the Valentine Ave. shop with a cane, then holding the door open for the victim as he exits with $80 in his hand.

Vargas then shoved Goetschius against the storefront, grabbed his right hand and dragged him several feet, causing his hand to break. The victim eventually lost his grip and Vargas ran off.

Vargas was charged with robbery, grand larceny, assault and possession of stolen property, and was held on $50,000 bail.

Vargas was already being held at Rikers Island for violating his parole in a 2019 felony drug possession case, but was released on Mar. 28 after his lawyers raised concerns about coronavirus spreading at the jail facility.