Hollywood writer-director Judd Apatow declared President Trump and Republicans to be “murderers” whose actions on coronavirus have caused “thousands of deaths.”

The scathing attack comes after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Tuesday argued that Democratic efforts to impeach the president on false grounds had distracted from the impending threat of the coronavirus.

“It came up while we were tied down in the impeachment trial,” McConnell said in an interview on The Hugh Hewitt Show. “And I think it diverted the attention of the government because everything every day was all about impeachment.”

Triggered by McConnell’s claim, Apatow suggested that McConnell and his Republican colleagues should face prosecution, without specifying what charges they should face.

“I think [the Senate Majority Leader] and all of these politicians should be prosecuted when this is done for the lies which cost thousands of deaths,” he tweeted.

“He knows Trump is a con man who lied to everyone to delay bad news and that led to thousands of additional deaths. They are all murderers.”

I think @senatemajldr and all of these politicians should be prosecuted when this is done for the lies which cost thousands of deaths. He knows Trump is a con man who lied to everyone to delay bad news and that led to thousands of additional deaths. They are all murderers. https://t.co/T0JPLOi8g0 — Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow) March 31, 2020

Breitbart.com reports: Indeed, as Breitbart’s Joel Pollak has reported, Congressional Democrats were focused on their impeachment trial while coronavirus was spreading from China to the United States. President Trump also declared a national health emergency in January and imposed a ban on travel to and from China.

Of course, Judd Apatow failed to mention these facts.

It is not the first time the 40-Year-Old Virgin director has accused Trump of murder. Last year, Apatow said Trump’s skepticism of climate alarmism was equivalent to “murdering our children.”

“We are murdering our children,” he wrote at the time. “It’s as simple as that. The President could care less.”

We are murdering our children. It’s as simple as that. The President could care less. https://t.co/zKMZU3r8VT — Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow) July 29, 2019

The 52-year-old has previously said that Trump is both a terrorist and a Nazi.

“He’s a Nazi. He wants no judicial process. He kidnapped children and commits acts of violence for political gain and to support his racist views,” he ranted back in 2018. “He admires violent dictators. Trump is a Nazi. The debate is over. Soon we will have proof he is a Nazi supported by the Russians.”