(Updates prices, adds quotes) March 3 (Reuters) - London copper prices scaled their highest in over a week on Tuesday, buoyed by growing hopes that global central banks would roll out policy stimulus to combat economic fallout from the coronavirus epidemic. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange (LME) rose as much as 1.4% to $5,780.50 a tonne, its highest since Feb. 21, before easing to trade 0.8% higher at $5,743 a tonne. The most-traded copper contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange (ShFE) advanced 1.2% to 45,430 yuan ($6,517.93) a tonne by 0506 GMT. China's factory activity contracted at its sharpest pace on record in February, data showed on Monday, raising the prospect of a policy response by world central banks to prevent a global recession. The heads of the European Central Bank and Bank of Japan issued emergency statements on Monday that echoed one from U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell late last week that promised the Fed would "act as appropriate" to support the U.S. economy. "Easing from central banks may offer some respite to markets, but ultimately what markets need to see is a peaking in the outbreaks outside China, or at least signs of peaking, to suggest that the worst is behind us," said ING in a report. The coronavirus, which has infected more than 86,500 people worldwide and left a global death toll exceeding 3,000, appears to now be spreading much more rapidly outside China than within. FUNDAMENTALS * ZINC: Spot treatment charges for zinc concentrate <AM-TC50-ZNCON> in China have fallen for the first time in almost two years, data from industry pricing and information provider Asian Metal shows, indicating a slight tightening of supply. * CESCO: The CRU World Copper Conference in Santiago and Cesco Week, among the largest annual gatherings of copper miners, have been cancelled due to concerns over travel risks associated with the coronavirus outbreak. * PRICES: LME aluminium edged up 0.2% to $1,720 a tonne, nickel rose 0.2% to $12,720 a tonne and zinc advanced 0.7% to $2,038 a tonne. ShFE aluminium rose 0.6% to 13,235 yuan a tonne and nickel jumped 1.7% to 102,690 yuan a tonne. * For the top stories in metals and other news, click or PRICES Three month LME copper Most active ShFE copper Three month LME aluminium Most active ShFE aluminium Three month LME zinc Most active ShFE zinc Three month LME lead Most active ShFE lead Three month LME nickel Most active ShFE nickel Three month LME tin Most active ShFE tin ARBS ($1 = 6.9700 Chinese yuan renminbi) (Reporting by Mai Nguyen; Editing by Devika Syamnath)