"Should I cancel my trip to Asia?" has become a popular question in my inbox as the novel coronavirus spreads.I have spent the past month traveling in South Korea, Vietnam, Malaysia, and Thailand, and I have never been significantly worried about actually coming down with COVID-19.I do think it makes sense for certain people to cancel their trips, however, even if they are unlikely to get sick.Answer these six questions to decide whether you should cancel, including "Do I have urgent plans soon after my trip?" and "Would I actually unplug and enjoy myself?"Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


I keep getting emails asking the same question: "Should I cancel my trip to Asia?" People want my take because I've been traveling in Asia for more than a month, visiting South Korea, Vietnam, Malaysia, and Thailand.I have never been seriously concerned about getting the novel coronavirus while traveling. Asked whether others should cancel their trips, however, I tend to respond by asking more questions. Often the person is planning to travel to a country with few or no reported coronavirus cases that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has cleared for travel. Statistically, they're unlikely to get COVID-19.But, especially in the past week, there have been some complicating factors. After weeks of almost all new cases being in China, South Korea now has more than 3,500 confirmed cases and Italy has more than 1,100 as of Monday. More workplaces are adding mandatory self-quarantines. US President Donald Trump has hinted at plans to expand travel restrictions.


You are still unlikely to get COVID-19 while traveling in Asia. I can say that, on the ground, I have felt far less anxious about getting sick than people I have talked to back in the US. Most other travelers I've spoken with in Vietnam and Thailand have similarly felt that it was not worth canceling a trip given the low chance of catching the coronavirus.Other people I have spoken with, however — including one of my own travel partners — have decided that they need to cancel their trips. And I understand why that might be the right decision. Here is a list of questions to ask yourself to figure out whether you should cancel your trip or go ahead with travel.













What does the CDC say?










The most obvious answer to the question is, if the CDC says don't go there, don't visit. For now, the CDC is warning travelers to avoid or practice enhanced precautions in only five countries: China, South Korea, Italy, Iran, and Japan. If your trip is a vacation to one of these five countries, I would consider canceling or postponing.Japan is only a level two, which means the CDC says to practice enhanced precautions. If you have health concerns, you should consider canceling your trip to Japan. If you are young and healthy, remember the situation can change (positively or negatively) quickly. You're unlikely to be infected by the novel coronavirus if you visit other countries."The risk to people traveling is actually very small outside the counties where there have been big numbers of cases," Dr. Shanthi Kappagoda, an infectious-disease physician at Stanford Health Care in Palo Alto, California, told The Wall Street Journal.

 






Do you have any urgent plans immediately after your trip?










If you're planning to visit Thailand to relax before the biggest presentation of your career, I would probably cancel the trip. I personally feel blissed out blogging from Koh Lanta, but when my roommate decided against joining me, I also understood. Companies like Apple and Amazon are restricting travel and having employees self-quarantine when returning from China and other countries. With new regions reporting hundreds of cases, it is likely that more countries could be added to quarantine lists.President Donald Trump has also hinted that he may consider new travel bans, which could make getting back into the US difficult — especially since some potential restrictions, like those targeting Mexico, do not seem tied to the number of coronavirus cases in the country. Even if the US does not quarantine travelers, your work might. If you have an important work event or are serving as the maid of honor in your sister's wedding within about two weeks of your trip, it's probably a good idea to avoid traveling internationally where there are any coronavirus concerns.

 






Are you going on a cruise?










If so, cancel it. The CDC is encouraging travelers to reconsider all travel on cruise ships in Asia.You probably won't catch the coronavirus on a cruise ship in other parts of the world, but after traveling in countries affected by the coronavirus, I would still consider canceling your trip.More than anything, coronavirus concerns have convinced me that being flexible is key to avoiding getting stuck in a bad situation. Iran and Italy have reported hundreds of cases each, making it clear that the coronavirus is not restricted to Asia.Cruises remove your ability to make independent decisions, instead locking you in an enclosed space with hundreds of other people. As seen in the case of the Diamond Princess cruise, that is not somewhere you want to be when an epidemic breaks out.

 






Will you be able to unplug and enjoy yourself?










I think this is the most important question, and it's one you have to answer for yourself.If the country you are visiting does not have a CDC warning, you are unlikely to catch the coronavirus. But if you're someone who will spend the entire trip worried about getting sick, you should probably cancel anyway. Spending a week of vacation checking the news for coronavirus updates and freaking out every time new cases are reported isn't the relaxing, enjoyable time you probably pictured for a week of vacation.If you want to travel, commit to avoiding deep dives into coronavirus updates. Check in once or twice a day, focusing on where you are visiting and any updates that could influence your plans. Then ditch your phone and actually enjoy your vacation! 

 






How flexible are your plans?










I can tell you everything that experts are saying and spell out every coronavirus-related decision I've made, but at the end of the day no one knows what will happen next.For example, few people for most of February would have considered Italy to be risky. Then, in a matter of days, the CDC was advising avoiding the country.If you have a big international trip planned, you'll have to be a bit more flexible than usual.If you're planning to visit multiple countries, one region may end up being struck from the itinerary at the last minute. And, if you have any aspects of the trip set in stone, such as multiday boat trips or expensive stays at a villa, I would double-check and see what is refundable and what isn't before you leave.

 






Can you get refunds?










If you're planning to visit South Korea and can't get a refund, you should still cancel the trip.But if you're trying to decide whether you'll be too anxious to enjoy a vacation to Cambodia, check and see which refunds you can get. If it's easy to get your money back and you know you won't enjoy the trip to its full potential, it may be worth saving it till next year. Here's a good guide to figuring out refunds.Checking refunds is also a good way to check in with how worried you are.Are you relieved when you see you can get a full refund on a flight, or are you sad because you have an excuse not to go on the trip?If you're more relieved than sad, then it may be time to cancel the flight. But, if finding refunds leaves you feeling nothing but depressed, don't cancel the trip!Again, you have a very low chance of catching COVID-19 in most countries. Plus, if you still decide to travel, it's way less crowded — and that means there's a potential for some great deals. Read more about what it's like traveling in Asia right now:I've taken 6 flights in a month throughout Asia as the coronavirus spreads — here's how the outbreak forced me to change how I travelPeople in Vietnam are flocking to a bakery that sells pink bread invented to use up the tons of dragon fruit going unsold because of the coronavirus outbreakVietnam is set to lose billions of dollars due to coronavirus, and it's already feeling the impact of the deadly outbreakI've been traveling in Asia for 3 weeks amid the deadly coronavirus outbreak, and actually catching the virus is far from my biggest fear