Shared Destiny. Shared Responsibility. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports 129 COVID-19 cases in the U.S., including cases under investigation. Story at a glance The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Wednesday reported at least 129 cases of the novel coronavirus in the United States. The CDC’s numbers reflect 80 U.S. cases and 49 cases from American citizens evacuated from Wuhan, China, or the Diamond Princess cruise ship that was quarantined in Yokohama, Japan.  Health officials say of the 80 cases, 24 are travel related and 16 were the result of spread from person to person. The CDC is investigating the remaining cases and how transmission occurred. The CDC’s tally also includes cases reported by individual states that were yet to be confirmed by the health agency. The New York Times reports at least 11 deaths have occurred in the U.S., with 10 in the Seattle area of Washington state, and one reported in California Wednesday. Officials in Los Angeles County announced six new cases Wednesday and declared a local state of emergency and public health emergency to expand and accelerate preparedness efforts.  New York City officials also on Wednesday announced four more cases, bringing the state’s total to six confirmed patients. Five of those cases come from community spread among a family and neighbor.  Congressional negotiators struck a deal Wednesday to provide more than $8 billion in funding to bolster the country’s response to the outbreak.  Worldwide, more than 90,000 people are infected, with a death toll exceeding 3,000.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  America is changing fast! Sign up for our newsletter to stay informed and engaged.