Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told Chuck Todd on "Meet the Press" Sunday that the elderly should avoid traveling and attending events involving big crowds because of the higher risk they face from the coronavirus.For most people, coronavirus symptoms are mild, but the elderly are much more susceptible."If you're a person with an underlying condition — and you are particularly an elderly person with an underlying condition — you need to think twice about getting on a plane or on a long trip," Fauci said. "And not only think twice, just don't get on a cruise ship.""It depends on who you are," he continued. "If you're a vulnerable person, take it seriously."Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Trump administration's coronavirus expert and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, went on Meet the Press Sunday to tell the US elderly population to "think twice" about traveling and "just don't get on a cruise ship."In an interview with NBC host Chuck Todd, Fauci was more cautionary in his evaluation of the spread of the virus. President Donald Trump recently said that he would prefer that the 3,500 people stuck on the Grand Princess cruise ship so the US coronavirus numbers don't "double."Elderly populations have been found to face a higher risk of dying from the virus, the full extent of which has been difficult to gauge in the US because of a slower pace of testing. The Associated Press reported that health officials were set to recommend that elderly Americans avoid flying on commercial airlines due to coronavirus concerns, but White House officials overruled them.


Fauci said older Americans should take extra precautions when looking to travel."If you're a person with an underlying condition — and you are particularly an elderly person with an underlying condition — you need to think twice about getting on a plane or on a long trip," Fauci said. "And not only think twice, just don't get on a cruise ship."Later on in the program, the host noted the disparity between the doctor's assessment and the more optimistic messaging coming from Trump."Having the President of the United States say that would have a lot more impact than Dr. Fauci, but he just won't say that," Todd said.