The next James Bond movie No Time To Die was supposed to come out in April, but caution and concern over the coronavirus has delayed the film's release until Nov. 12 in the UK and Nov. 25 in the U.S., according to The Hollywood Reporter. No Time To Die's delay is the first major movie to have its release affected by the coronavirus outbreak. The decision to delay the movie came jointly from MGM, Universal, producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli, and other producers on the series, the official 007 Twitter account tweeted Wednesday. MGM, Universal and Bond producers, Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli, announced today that after careful consideration and thorough evaluation of the global theatrical marketplace, the release of NO TIME TO DIE will be postponed until November 2020. pic.twitter.com/a9h1RP5OKd — James Bond (@007) March 4, 2020 Before today, press tours for No Time To Die in China, South Korea, and Japan were canceled due to the coronavirus, referred to officially as COVID-19. While the folks behind the decision didn't go into detail about the exact reasoning behind the delay, it likely stems from the fact that people are less inclined to go out in public in the middle of an outbreak like this and the movie would likely take a financial hit. It also isn't great to encourage people to go out in public unnecessarily. Pushing the release back to November may give the world enough time to recover and hopefully by then the outbreak will be a thing of the past. While this is the first movie release that's been affected, the virus has caused cancelations or delays all over. Google canceled its annual I/O conference because of the virus, the Game Developers Conference delayed its event to later in the year, and other major events like SXSW are seeing attendees and businesses pull out out of concern. Other major movies coming out around the same time as No Time To Die's original release date include Antebellum, Trolls World Tour, and Marvel's Black Widow. There is no word right now on if more of these movies will be delayed due to the coronavirus.