Happy Monday and welcome back to On The Money, where we're captivated by the feuding within Public Enemy over Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE. I'm Sylvan Lane, and here's your nightly guide to everything affecting your bills, bank account and bottom line. See something I missed? Let me know at slane@thehill.com or tweet me @SylvanLane. And if you like your newsletter, you can subscribe to it here: http://bit.ly/1NxxW2N. Write us with tips, suggestions and news: slane@thehill.com, njagoda@thehill.com and nelis@thehill.com. Follow us on Twitter: @SylvanLane, @NJagoda and @NivElis.   THE BIG DEAL--Fed pressed by Trump, Wall Street to counter coronavirus damage: The Federal Reserve is under pressure from Wall Street to cut interest rates as the financial sector braces for the unknown economic toll of the coronavirus and after markets suffered a weeklong free fall. Traders are betting on the Fed to cut rates even before the next formal policy meeting later this month, pushing the central bank to shift course on rates to soothe financial markets. But there are also open questions about the Fed's ability to protect the broader economy from the coronavirus fallout. I explain why here.     Reactions:   Read more: 5 parts of the economy most at risk from coronavirus   ON TAP TOMORROW   LEADING THE DAY Partisan fight over consumer bureau arrives at Supreme Court: The Supreme Court on Tuesday will hear oral arguments in a case that could be the culmination of Wall Street's 10-year battle against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the independent regulator created by Congress in the wake of the financial crisis. The Hill's Harper Neidig takes us inside the legal battle here.   Warren proposes $400B stimulus plan to fight economic damage from coronavirus: Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.), a 2020 presidential candidate, on Monday said that Congress should pass a $400 billion stimulus bill with paid emergency sick leave to counteract the economic damage caused by the coronavirus outbreak. Warren urged lawmakers to immediately pass a bill to fend off potential job losses, business failures, and consumer financial threats driven by the spreading coronavirus and the efforts to contain it. "Companies across America are already struggling with supply chain disruptions, and we don't want these temporary struggles to lead to widespread layoffs or for otherwise solid companies to go under," Warren wrote in a Monday proposal. I break down her plan here.   What's inside: Warren's proposed stimulus plan would include billions of dollars in federal spending targeted at the economic channels that pose the greatest direct risk to the U.S. population, including:   GOOD TO KNOW   ODDS AND ENDS View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.