A surrogate for former presidential candidate Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE on Tuesday said that most people want the middle of the road instead of a “revolution.” Buttigieg surrogate Jennifer Holdsworth told Hill.TV that his endorsement of former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE was not a “repudiation” but rather was “more about the process and how you get there.” “Joe Biden is that uniter,” she said. “He’s that middle of the road. And that was the mayor’s closing arguments saying, ‘Hey I don’t want to blow up this party.’ ” “Most people don’t want a revolution,” she added. Holdsworth said she thinks that Buttigieg, who announced his endorsement of Biden shortly after dropping out of the race, would have made a strong general election candidate. She pointed to Buttigieg and Biden's similar stances on Medicare for All as a reason for his backing. “Do I believe the mayor would have made the most formidable opponent to Donald TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE? I do,” she said. “But that doesn’t mean that myself, the mayor and everybody who supports the mayor doesn’t believe that Vice President Biden stands for everything that we do as well.” Buttigieg announced he was endorsing Biden on Monday night after suspending his campaign the day before. Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) also dropped out of the race and endorsed the former vice president Monday in an effort to combine the moderate vote ahead of Super Tuesday.  At the beginning of the day Tuesday, Biden sits in second place for the Democratic nomination with 54 delegates behind self-described democratic socialist Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) who has 60 delegates.  More than a third of the delegates across the country will be up for grabs in the primary elections Tuesday with 14 states and the American Samoa voting. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.