This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 



The coronavirus' economic fallout is fueling new fears of a global recession, and Bank of America laid out five metrics to monitor as the outbreak escalates.US consumer strength is the "key to whether global recession" will last months or weeks, the bank's analysts wrote Thursday.Small business confidence, jobless claims, mortgage activity, and President Trump's reelection odds could also signal the chances of an economic downturn.Here are the five figures to keep an eye on as recession fears mount, according to Bank of America.Visit the Business Insider homepage for more stories.A coronavirus-driven recession could take several forms and consumer behavior is the signal to watch, according to Bank of America analysts.


Friday's open brought more market chaos as investors continued flooding defensive assets and cashing out of stocks. Coronavirus fears intensified as the outbreak's infection count passed 100,000. Factory shutdowns throughout China kicked off a widespread supply shock, and demand faces a growing threat from fresh quarantine orders around the globe.Economists are now bracing for recession and pinpointing specific stress points in the global economy. Most data releases haven't yet captured the coronavirus's effect on the US economy, and upcoming reports covering the late February and early March will bring crucial clarity around the outbreak's fallout.Here are the five metrics best suited to predict a recession and where they stand today, according to Bank of America.













Consumer strength










Current level: 130.7The US consumer is "key to whether global recession" will be measured "in months not weeks," the team led by Michael Hartnett, the bank's chief investment strategist, wrote Thursday. Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of US economic activity, and a sharp decline in US gross domestic product could spark global contraction.

 






Small business confidence










Risk zone: below 100Current level: 104.3Bank of America pointed to the National Federation of Independent Business' Small Business Optimism Index as the best figure to gauge confidence among business owners. The metric edged higher by 1.6 points to its current level in January and is sure to come under strong pressure as the coronavirus spreads across the US.

 






Jobless claims










Risk zone: above 250,000Current level: 216,000Jobless claims released Thursday showed a modest decrease from 219,000 in the week ended February 29, suggesting the coronavirus has not yet fueled a labor strain in the US. The weekly release is among the most timely economic indicators and first warning signs of contraction.

 






Mortgage activity










Risk zone: "Lower," per Bank of AmericaCurrent level: 265.8Single-family mortgage applications dipped in the seven-day period ended March 4 but are poised to increase as rates plunged to record lows on Thursday. Mortgage rates loosely follow US Treasury bills and, in turn, the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate. The central bank's emergency rate cut on Tuesday could fuel additional buying activity as rates stand at historic lows.

 






Odds of President Trump's reelection










Risk zone: below 50%Current level: 58%, according to Oddschecker.comPresident Trump is still favored to win reelection come November, but Vice President Joe Biden's unexpected Super Tuesday victory drove a sharp uptick in his winning odds. An incumbent loss would throw new volatility into markets and eliminate Trump's anti-regulation platform markets have grown accustomed to.Now read more markets coverage from Markets Insider and Business Insider:JPMorgan sees $28 billion in market value erased as Jamie Dimon's emergency heart surgery adds to broader market woesBillionaire investor Steve Cohen is reportedly raising money for a new fund designed to invest in private companiesMoving into a tiny house helped one 35-year-old increase his income and save $100,000 in 5 years — here's how he did it

 

 



Get the latest Bank of America stock price here.