Video taken by the California National Guard shows officials dropping out of a helicopter to deliver coronavirus testing kits to the Grand Princess cruise ship, which is sitting off the coast of San Francisco.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is investigating multiple coronavirus cases associated with the ship's previous voyage, and some passengers currently on the ship have started to show symptoms.Officials have ordered the cruise ship to stay away from the California coast until passengers and crew members can be tested for the novel coronavirus.The US has reported at least 232 coronavirus cases across 19 states, including 61 in California.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


The California National Guard on Thursday dropped coronavirus test kits onto a cruise ship sitting off the coast of San Francisco amid concerns of a coronavirus outbreak on board.The Grand Princess cruise ship arrived off the coast of San Francisco on Thursday. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is investigating multiple coronavirus cases associated with the ship's previous voyage, and the first patient to die of the new coronavirus in California had traveled aboard the Grand Princess last month.Some of the ship's current passengers have started to show symptoms, according to Gov. Gavin Newsom and Princess Cruises. The ship ended up returning to San Francisco early instead of docking in Ensenada, Mexico, as a precaution.According to Princess Cruises, there are no confirmed cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, on board. The company said fewer than 100 guests and crew members had been identified for testing, including guests exhibiting flu-like symptoms or under care for respiratory illness. They have been asked not to leave their cabins.Video taken by the California National Guard 129th Rescue Wing on Thursday showed officials dropping out of a helicopter to deliver packages of testing kits to the top deck of the cruise ship.


—ABC10 (@ABC10) March 6, 2020Officials have ordered the cruise ship to stay away from the California coast until passengers and crew members can be tested for the coronavirus.According to Princess Cruises, the onboard medical team will administer the tests, which will then be sent in batches by helicopter to a lab in Richmond, California, as the cruise stays docked away from shore. No guests will be allowed to disembark until the test results are received.







The ship is from the same cruise line as the Diamond Princess, which was quarantined for two weeks in the port of Yokohama, Japan, and reported more than 700 coronavirus cases from its passengers.The US has reported at least 232 coronavirus cases across 19 states, including 61 in California.Twelve people in the US have died from the coronavirus: 11 in Washington state and one in California.


California declared a state of emergency on Wednesday after it reported its first death from COVID-19 in the state in Placer County, located near Sacramento.Morgan McFall-Johnson contributed reporting.