Activist and “The Nomiki Show” host Nomiki Konst said supporters of Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) would likely protest at this year’s Democratic National Convention, but expressed doubt that the nominee would be selected through a brokered convention.  “I’m not sold on the brokered convention, call me crazy but I still think we’re very likely to go into a convention that’s decided. Maybe I’m an optimist,” she said in a Hill.TV interview Monday. “I think we’re used to dealing with a DNC that may have had in the past nefarious intentions and there may be a good number of actors who do have nefarious intentions about keeping control and keeping Bernie out of it,” she added. However, Konst also cited comments by House Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Calif.) last week indicating openness to Sanders as the nominee and saying she believed a brokered convention would be bad for the party. “I think Nancy Pelosi is seeing the writing on the wall that she needs to keep her house together, and having a brokered convention would not be good for the elections beyond Trump,” Konst said. However, she speculated that the 2020 convention would be “extremely messy,” as even if Sanders achieves a plurality or a 1991-delegate majority, “the Democratic National Committee controls the convention, and as a result of that, they control the staging.” The 2016 convention, she said, was “ungodly,” involving protests, signs being ripped out of people’s hands and walkouts, and said similar events were likely in 2020. Konst described every candidate but Sanders and Biden as “a mercenary… there for some political goal,” including in some cases to blunt Sanders’ delegate lead. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.