Happy Wednesday and welcome back to On The Money, where we hope your Wednesday was as super as Joe Biden's Tuesday. I'm Sylvan Lane, and here's your nightly guide to everything affecting your bills, bank account and bottom line. See something I missed? Let me know at slane@thehill.com or tweet me @SylvanLane. And if you like your newsletter, you can subscribe to it here: http://bit.ly/1NxxW2N. Write us with tips, suggestions and news: slane@thehill.com, njagoda@thehill.com and nelis@thehill.com. Follow us on Twitter: @SylvanLane, @NJagoda and @NivElis.   THE BIG DEAL-- Stocks soar as Biden victories, central banks calm anxious investors: Stocks on Wednesday closed with major gains after a string of major Democratic primary victories for former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE and a flood of global central bank stimulus. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed with a gain of 1,173 points, a roughly 4.5-percent rise, as the S&P 500 rose 4.2 percent and the Nasdaq Composite rose 3.8 percent.   LEADING THE DAY House passes $8.3 billion measure to fight coronavirus: The House overwhelmingly passed an $8.3 billion supplemental funding bill Wednesday to respond to the coronavirus, marking the first major step by Congress to tackle the growing number of cases and deaths in the U.S. The 415-2 vote came just hours after lawmakers in both chambers struck the bipartisan deal for emergency funding. The Senate is expected to take up the measure as early as this week. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle praised the measure and called for the Senate to act quickly and send the bill to President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE's desk. The Hill's Juliegrace Brufke and Jessie Hellmann break down the measure here.   Trump touts economic success at Hispanic convention: President Trump touted his administration's economic agenda and its intended impact on Hispanic businesses during a Wednesday address to the Latino Coalition Legislative Summit. "You're having the best year you've ever had. I have to say that. Last year was your best, and we're beating it this year," Trump told the crowd. "With the hard work, love and devotion of millions of incredible Hispanic Americans, our country is thriving, our people are prospering and our future has ... really never looked better than it does right now," he added. The Hill's Rafael Bernal takes us there.   Mnuchin details IRS challenges with cash-only marijuana businesses: Treasury Secretary Steven MnuchinSteven Terner MnuchinOn The Money: Stocks soar as Biden victories, central banks calm anxious investors | House passes .3B measure to fight coronavirus | Trump touts economic success at Hispanic summit Mnuchin details IRS challenges with cash-only marijuana businesses The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - A huge night for Joe Biden MORE said Wednesday that the cash-only nature of marijuana businesses poses challenges for the IRS. Mnuchin's comments come as a House-passed bipartisan bill aimed at giving banks legal cover to serve the cannabis industry remains stalled before the Senate Banking Committee under opposition from Chairman Mike CrapoMichael (Mike) Dean CrapoOn The Money: Stocks soar as Biden victories, central banks calm anxious investors | House passes .3B measure to fight coronavirus | Trump touts economic success at Hispanic summit Mnuchin details IRS challenges with cash-only marijuana businesses Republican lobbying firms riding high despite uncertainty of 2020 race MORE (R-Idaho).   GOOD TO KNOW View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.