The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on Sunday said it is probing a manufacturing problem in the first testing kits for coronavirus that led several states to request emergency approval for state-specific tests. “Upon learning about the test issue from CDC [the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention], FDA worked with CDC to determine that problems with certain test components were due to a manufacturing issue,” Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Stephen Hahn said Sunday, Reuters reported. “We worked hand in hand with CDC to resolve the issues with manufacturing.” The department confirmed Sunday that it has begun an investigation into the flaw “and is assembling a team of non-CDC scientists to better understand the nature and source of the manufacturing defect in the first batch of COVID-19 test kits that were distributed to state health departments and others.” Meanwhile, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) said Saturday that the state would begin testing with the diagnostic kits it had developed after obtaining FDA permission. The Empire State confirmed its first coronavirus case Sunday evening. HHS Secretary Alex Azar said on ABC’s “This Week” Sunday that the U.S. has 75,000 test kits currently and expects testing capacity to “expand radically”  in the next week. “FDA has confidence in the design and current manufacturing of the test that already have and are continuing to be distributed,” Hahn added, according to Reuters. “These tests have passed extensive quality control procedures.” Washington state confirmed Sunday that there had been a second death in the state from the virus. More than 80,000 people worldwide have been diagnosed with coronavirus, with the large majority of them in China, where more than 2,500 have died from the illness. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.