Longtime CNN political analyst Paul Begala predicted on Monday that President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE is "gonna dump [Vice President] Mike PenceMichael (Mike) Richard PenceOvernight Health Care: House passes .3B measure to fight coronavirus | US death toll hits 11 | New guidance for nursing homes over virus | Roberts wrestles with Louisiana abortion law in high-stakes case Trump administration issues new guidance for nursing homes to combat coronavirus Trump touts economic success at Hispanic convention MORE in favor of former South Carolina Gov. Nikki HaleyNimrata (Nikki) HaleyThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Nikki Haley expected to endorse Loeffler in Senate race CNN's Begala: Trump will 'dump Pence' for Haley on day of Democratic nominee's acceptance speech MORE" on July 16 when the Democratic nominee is slated to give his or her acceptance speech. The former "Crossfire" co-host "guaranteed" Trump will throw Pence "under the bus" because of his handling of the coronavirus, which the president tapped Pence to lead a task force on last week. “This is not a prediction. It’s a certainty. On Thursday, July 16 — that’s the date the Democrat gives his or her acceptance address — on that day, to interrupt that narrative, Donald Trump will call a press conference at Mar-a-Lago. He’s going to dump Mike Pence and put Nikki Haley on the ticket to try to get those suburban moms," Begala predicted during a panel discussion at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s (AIPAC) conference in Washington, D.C. "You watch. Guaranteed," Begala said. “Trump put Pence in charge of coronavirus to throw him under the bus." 
 In December, Begala predicted that Trump would be impeached again. "This is not the last impeachment we will cover of Donald J. Trump," he said during a panel discussion on "Anderson Cooper 360." Haley, who was nominated by Trump to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and was confirmed with a 96-4 vote in January 2017, has staunchly denied speculation she could replace Pence on the GOP ticket. "The vice president and the president are a great ticket together," Haley told "Fox & Friends" in November. "They're solid. Solid enough that they're going to win together. There is no truth whatsoever that I would ever in any way look to get that position. I think Mike is great for that job and I think that he's the right partner for the president." "Mike Pence is a great vice president,” Trump said in November, while noting Haley would “absolutely” be involved in his 2020 campaign. “She is a friend of mine, she endorsed me with the most beautiful endorsement you’ve ever heard. She did a great job at the U.N.,” Trump added of Haley. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.