Vice President Pence will travel on Thursday to Washington state, which is grappling with an increasing number of coronavirus cases. Pence's press secretary, Katie Miller, tweeted that the vice president will travel to Olympia. He will meet with Washington Gov. Jay InsleeJay Robert InsleeCalifornia reports state's first coronavirus fatality as US death toll hits 11 Pence to travel to Washington as state grapples with coronavirus Emerald City Comic Con will take place in Seattle amid coronavirus fears  MORE (D) and other state and local officials in the capital city.  .@Mike_Pence will be traveling to Olympia, Washington tomorrow.  Pence told reporters during a meeting with medical lab executives on Wednesday that a 10th American has died from coronavirus. Nine deaths have been reported in Washington, where state officials have confirmed 27 total cases of the coronavirus. The vice president was previously scheduled to travel to Wisconsin and Minnesota on Thursday for campaign events. He is still expected to stop in Minnesota to meet with executives from 3M, which is producing masks and other medical equipment. Pence was tasked last week with leading the administration's coronavirus response. He met Wednesday with lab CEOs and airline executives as the administration assesses the fallout of the virus. There are more than 100 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the U.S., with many of them based in Washington state. Trump and other officials have stressed that the risk for most Americans of contracting the coronavirus remains low. The president has said that he was not considering restricting domestic travel because of the spread of the disease. But lawmakers and public health officials have pressed the administration on the limited number of available tests, which has hindered the ability of officials to know how widespread the virus is within the United States.  Lawmakers on Wednesday reached an agreement on a more than $7 billion funding deal to combat the virus. The amount is significantly higher than the $2.5 billion the White House initially requested. Both chambers of Congress are expected to vote on the bill this week. Updated at 2:15 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.