President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE said Tuesday he's not considering restricting travel within the U.S. due to the coronavirus. "We’re not looking at that at all, no," Trump told reporters as he departed the White House to visit the National Institutes of Health. "There’s only one hot spot and that's also pretty much in a home, as you know, in a nursing home," he added, referring to the concentration of cases in Washington state. The president reiterated that he is, however, considering curbing travel to the U.S. from countries with severe outbreaks of the virus. He said the administration was monitoring the situation in Italy, South Korea, Japan and other "hot spots," but would not commit to any action. "We’re being very stringent, but we’re now looking at other countries that have been badly affected," he said. "We don’t want to do that, but we’re looking at other countries and we’ll be very stringent." Trump on Saturday announced further travel restrictions from Iran and advised American citizens not to travel to specific regions in Italy and South Korea in response to the coronavirus. The State Department is also working with the Italian and South Korean governments to enhance screenings in those countries of individuals traveling to the U.S.  Six people have died in the U.S. from coronavirus, all in Washington state, and new cases are being announced on a near daily basis. There are at least 60 known cases nationwide, not including those who were repatriated from Wuhan, China, or the Diamond Princess cruise ship. Vice President Pence, asked on Monday whether he'd feel comfortable with his family traveling to Disney World amid concerns about the coronavirus, urged Americans to use "common sense" and wash their hands. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.