Hyundai has a new concept car out, which the automaker is calling the Prophecy.Concept cars often show an exaggerated version of where an automaker wants to go in the future, hence this one's name — it's a preview of Hyundai EVs to come. With sweeping lines and smooth curves, the Prophecy's design feels almost like a mashup of the Tesla Model 3 and Porsche 911.On the inside, the car is built more for relaxing than driving. The driver is meant to lean back and control the car using a pair of joysticks, while an autonomous driving system does the rest. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Hyundai has a new electric concept car called the Prophecy, which, as its name suggests, offers a sneak peek at what the brand's future EVs may look like.If the car is anything to go by, the future looks pretty darn good. Hyundai debuted the concept on Tuesday, showing it off with a video presentation after the Geneva International Motor Show was canceled amid coronavirus concerns. It's electric and autonomous, but like most concept cars, it's just an exaggerated idea of what the future will look like — not a solidified production model. But with its looks echoing part Tesla Model 3 and part Porsche 911, the Prophecy sports a sleek, fastback shape, pixelated headlights, and a clear-acrylic spoiler out back. Hyundai might have gone a bit far with the language in its press release — describing the Prophecy as "sensuous," "voluptuous," and fostering "an emotional connection between humans and automobiles" — but the Prophecy is, at least, stunning. The car's interior may prove a bit more controversial than the exterior, however, since Hyundai has done away with a steering wheel in favor of a pair of joysticks. Hyundai said in using the joysticks, the driver can "control the vehicle from a position of comfort," while autonomous technology pilots the car.


Scroll down to see inside the Prophecy, Hyundai's beautiful new concept car that hints at an equally beautiful future for its EVs.













Hyundai just revealed a beautiful, electric concept car it's calling the Prophecy.















The car, as its name suggests, gives us a glimpse at what Hyundai's upcoming EVs may look like — and the future looks good.











 






An EV mullet of sorts, as the the Prophecy screams Tesla in the front ...















... and Porsche in the back.











 






Its built-in rear wing, which helps keep the car planted when cruising at high speeds, looks a whole lot like Porsche's whale-tail spoiler found on some 911 models.















And the Prophecy's front end — home to some futuristic, pixelated headlights — gives off serious Model 3 vibes.











 






That look is carried over to the rear lights, and Hyundai says the pixelated lamps will be "a signature design element in future Hyundai models."















But let's hope Hyundai holds onto more of this striking concept than just the lights.











 






For starters, the clear acrylic wing is a nice touch.















And the Prophecy is full of functional design elements as well — an air intake below the bumper, for example, serves to cool the batteries.











 






And turbine-shaped wheels draw in air, making the Prophecy more aerodynamic.















Hyundai gave the concept car a long wheelbase and minimal overhang to accentuate its sleek, elegant look ...











 






... but that stretched-out wheelbase also makes room for a spacious interior that's meant more for lounging than driving.















While elements of the Prophecy's exterior could feasibly be found in a production Hyundai in the near future, the car's cabin is less realistic.











 






Evidently catered toward autonomous driving, the Prophecy sports a pair of joysticks instead of a conventional steering wheel.















Those enable the driver to lean back and "control the vehicle from a position of comfort," Hyundai says.











 






From that reclined position — and without a pesky steering wheel in the way — the driver can fully take in the Prophecy's pillar-to-pillar display.















A future where passengers can lean back and rely on autonomous driving is still a long way away — but looks are another story, and we'll hopefully see these styling cues on future Hyundai models soon.