The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends parents use digital rather than mercury thermometers to ensure their family's safety. Depending on your child's age, you will want to use a rectal, temporal artery, tympanic, or oral thermometer.We consulted a pediatrician, looked at current research, and talked to parents to select 11 of the most popular digital baby thermometers to test.Our picks for the best baby thermometers are Vicks Rectal Baby Thermometer, Exergen Temporal Artery Thermometer, Innovo Digital Forehead and Ear Thermometer, Braun ThermoScan Ear Thermometer, and Vicks ComfortFlex.Due to fears of coronavirus, many of these products are quickly selling out or appearing at prices well above market retail. We're doing our best to keep this guide updated with in-stock purchase links.Fevers are never fun, but when you have a baby, they can be downright terrifying. Taking a fast, accurate temperature is vital. On tiny bodies, even small numerical swings have much greater impact than they do for us adults.As the old-fashioned mercury thermometer has been phased out (or banned, as it is in 13 states), a plethora of digital options has risen to take its place. Yet not all digital thermometers are fit for use on infants from day one."Up until 3 months, I like for families to take a rectal temperature with a basic digital thermometer," said Dr. Justin Smith, a pediatrician and the medical advisor for digital health at Cook Children's in Trophy Club, Texas. "After 3 months, parents can continue to take a rectal temperature or use a temporal artery thermometer (which you run across the forehead). This is different from a tympanic thermometer which is placed in the child's ear, which should not be used in children under 6 months of age because they are not accurate."Why aren't ear thermometers accurate for infants? The thermometer probe is too large to slide down into the ear canal to register accurately.Taking a rectal temperature with a crying, wiggling newborn isn't easy. Sometimes, it's downright impossible. While rectal is the preferred method, I recommend having a temporal forehead scanner on hand as a backup if taking a rectal temperature isn't possible. Today's technology makes forehead scanners precise, speedy, and noninvasive.What kind of thermometer should you use?It's a simple question with a not-so-straightforward answer. The American Academy of Pediatrics offers a thermometer use chart based on age, but it does not reflect current research, including its own, which supports the use of temporal thermometers. "I agree with the studies," said Smith. "A temporal thermometer is a very reasonable way to assess temperature."Here are your best options by age:Rectal (bottom) is the only approved thermometer for babies under 3 months old.Temporal artery (forehead) is appropriate for babies 3 months and older, and as a backup when a rectal reading cannot be obtained in babies under 3 months.Tympanic (ear) is appropriate for babies 6 months and older, though a forehead thermometer tends to yield more accurate readings.Axillary/axilla (armpit) is the least accurate compared to other methods but easy and noninvasive, making it a useful "benchmark" temperature gauge.Oral (mouth) and non-contact infrared (forehead) should only be used on children 4 years and older who are capable of holding their breath. A rectal or temporal artery temperature of 100.4 degrees or higher in a newborn to 3-month-old is not okay. Call your healthcare provider immediately and seek care.Based on pediatric guidelines and Smith's advice, I looked at the latest and most popular models available, spoke with fellow parents, and noted top recommendations on doula and parenting groups to narrow down contenders to test. I tested FDA-approved rectal, tympanic, temporal artery, and multiuse models for this guide.Except for rectal thermometers, I tested each one a total of 25 times on myself, my toddler, and my husband — mornings and evenings, in health and through a bout of flu. For the rectal thermometers, I tested them orally and in-hand, relying on additional feedback from four mothers who had used the models on their babies.I evaluated each thermometer for accuracy, ease of use, design, and comfort. Now for a disclaimer: Nearly every model (tested and otherwise) has a grievance, from small nitpicks to sustained inaccuracies. Overall, the following products performed extremely well when rigorously tested.Here are the best baby thermometers you can buy:Best rectal thermometer: Vicks Rectal Baby ThermometerBest forehead thermometer: Exergen Temporal Artery ThermometerBest ear thermometer: Braun ThermoScan Ear ThermometerBest multipurpose thermometer: Innovo Digital Forehead and Ear ThermometerBest budget thermometer: Vicks ComfortFlexPrices and links are current as of 3/04/2020. Based on pediatric guidelines, we added a best rectal thermometer. We replaced the Exergen Temporal Artery and Braun Thermoscan 5 thermometers with newer models that we tested. We also selected a new multipurpose thermometer (previously the Enji Family Digital Thermometer), removed the best overall and high-tech categories and picks (iProven DMT-489 Thermometer and Kinsa QuickCare Smart Digital Thermometer, respectively), and added a budget pick. 













The best rectal thermometer










 
The Vicks Rectal Baby Thermometer has a short, flexible tip that makes over-insertion impossible.In time, being a parent inures you to all sorts of bodily fluids and functions. However, at first, taking a rectal temperature is scary, especially when panic about the baby's health sets in. Thankfully, Vicks has created a goof-proof thermometer that is small and easy to hold, thanks to an indented pocket-like groove on either side. The probe features a short, flexible tip that makes insertion as gentle as possible. There is no guessing if it's in far enough or too much. Once inserted, the short, curved body of the thermometer will naturally rest against the baby's bum.It takes 10 seconds to read the temperature — in theory. In my experience, it's closer to 15 seconds. Compared with temporal scanners, this can feel like a long time to wait. However, it's worth it for the sake of taking a temperature only once, given that rectal temperatures have the least temperature variance.The digital display is bold, clear, and well-sized for the compactness of the unit. When the temperature is ready, the unit beeps several times. My only complaint: To read the temperature, you must press the side button again to reilluminate the display. The numbers are not legible at a distance if the display is not lit. It's powered by one LR44 battery, which is included.You absolutely must clean this thermometer after each use. Cleanup is relatively simple with soap and water, as the thermometer is waterproof. Storage is easy and hygienic with a fitted cap that encases most of the unit. Pros: Lightweight, waterproof for easy cleaning, well-designed insertion tip, no setup requiredCons: Readings take 10 to 15 seconds, digital display does not automatically illuminate when registering a temperature

 $15.99 from Buy Buy Baby
 

 






The best forehead thermometer










 
This sturdy model is dependable, fast, and has close to zero downtime when taking multiple readings in quick succession. The Exergen Temporal Artery Thermometer is best for infants 3 months and older and as a backup to a rectal thermometer before then. The first thing that strikes you about the thermometer is its heft. It is ever-so-slightly heavier than other models (a good thing) and has a nice, solid wand that makes it easy to grip. The circular probe allows for better continuous forehead contact than other models with pointed and grooved tops.This model allows for a modicum of user error if it's not completely pressed against the forehead at all times. That said, it's important to follow the directions and start in the middle of the forehead and then swipe side to side for the most accurate reading.Upon repeated testing, the Exergen delivered the most accurate and consistent readings of any model tested. However, it's worth noting that the variations for most models were very minor — typically a variation of 0.3 degrees.Second to its accuracy, what I appreciate most about the Exergen is its ability to retake a temperature with no downtime in between. It makes quick work out of taking a temperature three times, something I always do at home. As a postpartum doula, I also encourage my clients to do this to ensure they are getting a consistent temporal temperature reading.The unit is powered by an included 9V battery and automatically retains the last eight temperatures taken. It's a useful feature, though I found tabbing through the options cumbersome. There is one central button to run all commands. While it makes the unit streamlined, exiting the settings menu for silent mode and recorded temperatures proved tricky.I appreciated the silent mode for sleeping, sick kids. And while the soft-glow display is deliberately soft, I did find it slightly dim at times, especially in light of the small display window, which is smaller than most.Pros: Extremely accurate, consistent three-second reading time, easy-to-grip wand, silent modeCons: Small and dim digital display, settings menus is not 100% intuitive

 $34.92 from Walmart
 

 






The best ear thermometer










 
This Braun model with a prewarmed tip and age-appropriate settings generates reliable readings of fevers in less than one second.The Braun ThermoScan is very popular among parents, providing quick and reliable readings on par with the Exergen when fever is present. Despite its age-based settings, this type of thermometer is only suitable for infants 6 months and older.In fact, we've ranked it No. 1 in this category before. It was surprising, then, that I really didn't like it at first. I found the readings tested up to 0.5 degrees higher than other models when no fever was present. I also thought its disposable lens filters were wasteful. However — and it's a big however — when my daughter came down with a horrible case of flu, I found myself reaching for this model over and over (and the Exergen, which is, hands down, now my No. 1 choice in our home).I felt bad for routinely checking her 103-plus degree fever with several thermometers, but I'm glad I did. The Kinsa, my early favorite, did not register fevers as accurately as it had with healthy temperatures. Braun's did. The tip was also easier to insert when she was sleeping. It's worth noting that she and my husband cannot stand anything in their ears and did not like the feel of this, more so than other brands. Yet accuracy reigns supreme.Other wins: It stays true to its promise of a one-second reading, and you can take back-to-back readings. It's ready out of the box with 2 AA batteries in place. Those pesky disposable covers? Well, I admit they're actually very helpful when rechecking high temperatures on an hourly basis.Pros: Very accurate when fever is present, one-second reading time, age/color-coded results, sleek packagingCons: Expensive, not appropriate for babies under 6 months old, button to remove probe covers is overly forceful causing the covers to flip into the air

 $54.88 from Walmart
 

 $54.99 from Rite Aid
 

 






The best multipurpose thermometer










 
Use this thermometer's temporal scanner in the early days of baby's life as a backup to a rectal thermometer and easily switch to the tympanic method later. I have had my Innovo for almost four years, and it's never let me down during crucial fever moments with my daughter. For this review, I tested my own unit and then put its newest (2018) model to the test. The latest model features some tweaks, including technology upgrades and buttons labeled "Head" and "Ear" rather than the old "F1" and "F2".Nine out of 10 times, the readings were just as accurate as the Exergen. While my old Innovo required a full scan of the temporal artery across the forehead, the new model can be held to the temple — I prefer this to taking a reading in the mid-forehead. Simply press the button, and it delivers a reading in one second. There is no wait time between readings.In light of the Exergen's circular probe, the molded shape of the Innovo tip does make it slightly more difficult to get a reading in some positions, especially if you are not perfectly angled to the side of your child.That said, the unit is light and gently curved, making it easy to hold. It makes a medium-pitch "beep" as it registers the temperature if no fever is present. If fever is present, it will beep more and flash, along with switching to red. The digital display is nicely sized, illuminated, and easy to read. The thermometer is ready out-of-the-box with two preinstalled AAA batteries.Given its two modalities, the shelf-life on this unit is strong, making its price tag a particular bargain.Pros: Easy to use, accurate, a 2-for-1 bargain with ear and forehead probesCons: Curved tip does not connect with forehead as well as Exergen, accessing memory storage feature not intuitive

 $29.99 from Walmart
 

 






The best budget thermometer










 
The ComfortFlex is the Swiss Army Knife of digital thermometers with settings to take axillary, rectal, and oral temperature readings.Light, slim, versatile, and very affordable, there's honestly no reason not to have the Vicks ComfortFlex in your house, whether it's your front-runner or backup thermometer.For babies, this can be used under the arm or rectally. I believe this would be a superior choice as an oral thermometer once children are old enough to hold their breath, making it a good long-term purchase.In testing, the ComfortFlex was very accurate and temperatures registered within 8 and 11 seconds. It has one button and performs one function, making it as basic as possible. Results are color-coded (green is normal, yellow is elevated, red is high) and easy to see on the compact circular display with large numbers.Two drawbacks: The beep is extremely loud and you cannot take back-to-back temperatures. Users must turn the power off and on to test again, although it restarts quickly.This thermometer is the smallest and lightest of the bunch, making it optimal for travel. It comes ready to use with an LR44 battery installed. Pros: Affordable, multiuse, accurate, clear digital display, well-designed probe coversCons: Slow readings (by comparison) of 8 to 11 seconds, very loud beep, lag time when taking multiple readings

 $9.98 from Walmart
 

 






What else we considered










 
Kinsa Smart Ear Digital Thermometer ($40): The Kinsa is beautifully designed, and the app is terrific and very helpful. Readings only take one second and can be done repeatedly. However, accuracy was consistently off by up to 1.5 degrees when registering fever temperatures.Vicks SpeedRead Thermometer ($13): Disqualified. The unit did not function at all.Vicks RapidRead Thermometer ($23): This model came neck-and-neck with Vicks' ComfortFlex for accuracy. However, it costs more than the ComfortFlex and never delivered on its two-second promise. Readings typically took up to five seconds to register.Fridababy Quick-Read Rectal Thermometer ($15): Although accuracy was on-point, its small, sleek design was a hindrance and made it harder to hold (and feel confident using) than Vicks' rectal thermometer.Tempagenix Temp-N-Toss Forehead Thermometers ($8): Despite their convenience, these disposable, adhesive paper strips are not accurate and did not work as promised. They peeled off the forehead and took 90 seconds to register a color.Safety 1st Digital Ear Thermometer ($30): This model was accurate throughout testing and was the most comfortable to hold of all tympanic thermometers (at least for midsize hands). However, you have to wait a full minute between tests, which is a deal-breaker compared with competing brands at this price point.

 






What type of thermometer should you use on your baby?










I spoke with Dr. Justin Smith, a pediatrician and the medical advisor for digital health at Cook Children's in Trophy Club, Texas, and looked at current guidelines and research to determine the most appropriate thermometers for each age group.Rectal (bottom): Rectal, as suggested by Dr. Smith, is still the American standard for babies up to 3 months old. If you're afraid that you could hurt your baby with this method, take heart: The risk of rectal perforation is incredibly small (only 29 cases have been documented as of 2001, the date of the most recent study). The incidents on record are all with the use of a glass thermometer and in hospital settings, not the home.Temporal artery (forehead): As the popularity of temporal forehead thermometers has increased, so have the studies about their use and efficacy. They have been declared the most accurate of all noninvasive methods.Tympanic (ear): Tympanic thermometers are beloved for their speed and ease of use. Science isn't completely sold, however. According to most research, an ear thermometer is not as effective as a temporal one, and Smith said they're inappropriate for babies under 6 months old.Axillary/axilla (armpit): An axillary temperature taken under the armpit is not as accurate as other methods, but it is easy and noninvasive, making it a useful "benchmark" temperature gauge. "Because you're taking a skin temperature, if the child has been bundled up or in a warm room, there can be significant fluctuation," said Smith.Oral (mouth) and non-contact infrared (forehead): Oral thermometers should only be used on children 4 years and older who are capable of holding their breath. Early studies on non-contact infrared thermometers (NCIT) are showing they have a lot of promise, especially in the NICU, yet nothing is definitive. "They are becoming popular, and more parents are asking about them, but I think it's too early," said Smith.The one thing everyone agrees on? A rectal or temporal artery temperature of 100.4 degrees or higher in a newborn to 3-month-old is not okay. Call your healthcare provider immediately and seek care.

 






How to accurately take a baby's temperature










 
Fever accounts for 70% of all consultations with pediatricians and family physicians. Your baby's temperature can be the difference between "home care" and "urgent care," so accuracy matters. Here's how to get it right.How to take an accurate rectal temperatureClean the thermometer with soap and water.Place a small amount of petroleum jelly on the end.Place your baby across your lap face down or on their back on a firm surface.Gently place the thermometer about a half-inch into the anus.Place your entire hand around the child's bottom, holding the thermometer in place between your fingers.Hold in place for about one minute or until you hear the beep.Tip: If you're still wondering how to master this technique, the American Academy of Pediatrics has a useful illustrated guide.How to take an accurate ear temperatureClean the probe before/after each use.Gently pull on the top outermost part of the ear (this is key).Slowly insert the probe into the ear canal. Do not push.Press the button to take the temperature.Remove the thermometer after it beeps.Tip: Check for earwax buildup before use, and do not use immediately after bathing.How to take an accurate forehead temperaturePlace the probe in the middle of the forehead.Press the scan button and begin to move slowly to one side.Move from one ear, over the forehead, and toward the opposite ear.Release the scan button and remove the thermometer as it beeps.Tip: It is important to maintain contact with the forehead at all times. The side-to-side motion should take between three and five seconds.How to take an accurate temperature under the armTurn on the thermometer and place the probe in the center of your baby's armpit.Hold it in place until you hear a beep.Tip: Ensure the thermometer is touching skin only, not clothing.

 






Check out our guides to the best baby gear










The best baby swaddlesSwaddling — wrapping your baby snugly in breathable material to mimic a womb-like sensation — is the key to a good night's sleep. Your baby, when wrapped, relaxes and falls asleep. Or at least, that's the theory. These are the best baby swaddles to help them — and you — get a good night's sleep.The best bottle warmersYou might think a baby bottle warmer is something extra that's not necessary. But when your little one is screaming in the middle of the night for warm milk, having a warmer will save your sanity, and hopefully, some sleep. These gadgets can heat formula and breast milk without hot spots so you don't have to boil water in a pan. These are the best bottle warmers.The best cloth diapersCloth diapers are easy to use, offer money-savings, and are nothing like the ones your grandma used to use. When you get down to finding the perfect cloth diaper, it comes down to four factors: cost, sustainability, absorbency, and cuteness (your baby has to look good, after all). These are the best cloth diapers.The best breast pumpsWhether you're running an errand, taking a short trip or heading back to work full-time, you'll need a good breast pump to get you through those times when you can't breastfeed your baby directly. These are the best breast pumps.The best baby monitorsWhen it comes to baby monitors, parents are spoiled for choice nowadays, thanks to the rise of the connected home and new technologies like live-streaming video and high-resolution cameras. No matter which type of baby monitor you buy — whether it be an old-school audio-only monitor or a fancy Wi-Fi monitor with streaming video —these are the best baby monitors.

 

 




 Featured Digital Health Articles:
 - Telehealth Industry: Benefits, Services & Examples
 - Value-Based Care Model: Pay-for-Performance Healthcare
 - Senior Care & Assisted Living Market Trends
 - Smart Medical Devices: Wearable Tech in Healthcare
 - AI in Healthcare
 - Remote Patient Monitoring Industry: Devices & Market Trends

Subscribe to our newsletter.
You can purchase syndication rights to this story here.
 Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.