President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE has nominated Gen. Charles Brown to be the next Air Force chief of staff, setting Brown up to be the nation's first African American military service chief, the Pentagon announced Monday. If confirmed, Brown would also be the first African American to sit on the Joint Chiefs of Staff since Colin PowellColin Luther PowellThe Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - Dems rally to Biden's side on Super Tuesday Eve Overnight Defense: US, Taliban deal hits snag in first days | Military helping to find coronavirus vaccine | White House withdraws nomination for official who questioned Ukraine aid hold Trump nominates first African American Air Force chief MORE was chairman from 1989 to 1993. "The USAF will be well served by the formidable talents of CQ Brown," Air Force Secretary Barbara Barrett tweeted. "He has unmatched strategic vision & operational expertise. His leadership will be instrumental as the service continues to focus on the capabilities & talent we need to implement the #NDS," she added, referring to the National Defense Strategy. Brown, who has been the commander of Pacific Air Forces since July 2018, would take over for current Air Force chief of staff Gen. David Goldfein, who is expected to retire in the summer. Prior to leading Pacific Air Forces, Brown was the deputy commander of U.S. Central Command. His résumé also includes time as the commander of U.S. Air Forces Central Command in 2015 and 2016 during the height of the air campaign against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. He has also served multiple tours across Europe, Asia and the Middle East as an F-16 fighter jet pilot. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.