This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 



There have been few winners in the stock market recently, but Matthew Taylor of UBS says there are a few medical technology companies that could benefit from the response to the coronavirus outbreak. Just as importantly, there are some companies in the industry that are more vulnerable than their peers to supply chain trouble and delays.A key point is some medical device companies are relying on China as a major driver of revenue growth.  Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Healthcare stocks are in something of a unique position during the ongoing coronavirus-linked selloff because of the wide variety of good, bad, and mixed effects on their businesses.UBS analyst Matthew Taylor is drilling down into medical technology companies to assess what the viral outbreak means for their businesses. That involves evaluating their business lines, supply chains, procedural volumes, and the geographies of their businesses.That can help investors get a handle on what to do and what not to do with their money as the COVID-19 epidemic spreads. As of Friday, more than 100,000 people have been infected around the world, and 3,400 have died.In his estimation, the most at-risk companies are the ones that are relying heavily on China as a source of growth, as well as those that get a lot of their revenue from less-vital medical procedures that can be postponed because of the epidemic.In a note to clients, Taylor says the overhang on these companies won't last, but he cautions that the recovery in delayed procedures is going to be a gradual one. 


"In our view, the impacts will likely be limited to a 1x negative in the coming periods; over time we expect most of the missed procedures to come back," he wrote. "Impacted regions could see a modestly elevated level of utilization for several quarters as patients re-enter the system and seek treatment."He continued: "Given patient fears about visiting healthcare facilities, we think this benefit likely lags containment of the virus in affected regions by weeks or months."What follows is a list of two companies that could ultimately see more demand for products and services as a result of the outbreak, and seven that could remain under pressure during that slow recovery. They're ranked based on how the percentage of their annual revenue growth that comes from China.













#1 STOCK TO BUY: Baxter International










Ticker: BAXMarket cap: $46.8 billionAnnual revenue: $11.4 billionChina revenue: 6%China growth contribution: 10%Summary: "China revenue exposure is ~6%, with the vast majority being the renal business. These patients need continued support so the main thing BAX is focused on is ensuring supply," said Taylor. "The Acute business (acute kidney injuries) could benefit from more people going into hospitals; BAX is seeing strong performance."

 






#2 STOCK TO BUY: Masimo International










Ticker: MASIMarket cap: $9.7 billionAnnual revenue: $937.8 millionChina revenue: 1%China growth contribution: 1%Summary: "If the coronavirus were to spread deeper into Europe or the US, that could benefit MASI through higher sensor volumes via an increase in hospitalization," said Taylor. "Even if elective procedures were negatively impacted by the virus, higher hospitalization rates would offset that. MASI is also benefit ting from one of the strongest flu season in years."

 






#1 STOCK TO AVOID: Zimmer Biomet










Ticker: ZBHMarket cap: $32.7 billionAnnual revenue: $7.98 billionChina revenue: 5%China growth contribution: 27%Summary: "ZBH has seen a pretty significant reduction in elective procedures (~85-90%) thru February," wrote Taylor. "The company has not seen any material recovery and thinks this will continue at a minimum through March."

 






#2 STOCK TO AVOID: Medtronic










Ticker: MDTMarket cap: $154.1 billionAnnual revenue: $30.6 billionChina revenue: 7%China growth contribution: 15%Summary: "The ventilator business has been performing well as MDT is sending a lot of equipment into impacted markets," Taylor wrote. "China was also shut down in 1H February for the new year, and MDT noted there could be some delays in procedures coming back."

 






#3 STOCK TO AVOID: Becton Dickinson










Ticker: BDXMarket cap: $72.5 billionAnnual revenue: $17.29 billionChina revenue: 7%China growth contribution: 13%Summary: "BD does not have any manufacturing or distribution operations in Wuhan or the province," Taylor said. "It noted about 95% of products manufactured in China are sold within China. It currently has sufficient inventory of the few products that it exports from China to meet current demand."

 






#4 STOCK TO AVOID: Abbott Laboratories










Ticker: ABTMarket cap: $159 billionAnnual revenue: $30.6 billionChina revenue: 8%China growth contribution: 11%Summary: "Some of its products like nutrition, drugs, and diagnostics may not see as much impact as deferrable procedures," said Taylor. "Our understanding is that ABT's manufacturing footprint is pretty limited in China and does not likely represent a major risk."

 






#5 STOCK TO AVOID: Varian Medical Systems










Ticker: VARMarket cap: $13.3 billionAnnual revenue: $3.23 billionChina revenue: 9%China growth contribution: 10%Summary: "VAR has a material business in China making up about 9% of sales which has been growing strong [double digits], faster than average (17% CAGR over 5 years)," Taylor wrote. "About half the Interventional business is in China, which is a material opportunity."

 






#6 STOCK TO AVOID: Boston Scientific










Ticker: BSXMarket cap: $59.2 billionAnnual revenue: $10.7 billionChina revenue: 5%China growth contribution: 8%Summary: "While most of the portfolio is acute, the majority of it is not emergent – procedures like endoscopies, urology interventions, and scheduled replacements could potentially be deferred," Taylor said. "Focus on virus detection, containment, treatment, and other measures are causing other procedure to be deferred."

 






#7 STOCK TO AVOID: Intuitive Surgical










Ticker: ISRGMarket cap: $71.4 billionAnnual revenue: $4.48 billionChina revenue: 3%China growth contribution: 3%Summary: "We would have expected strong growth in the country this year ex-corona," said Taylor. "ISRG noted that coronavirus has been affecting procedure volumes in China and likely had some impact on other countries around the region as well."