House Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Calif.) is blasting President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE as the "most dangerous person in the history of our country," urging voters to turn out at the polls in November. “We have the most dangerous person in the history of our country sitting in the White House,” Pelosi, who appears on the cover of the "Hollywood and 2020 election" issue of Variety, tells the entertainment industry magazine in a profile published Tuesday. “That’s different from what happened in 2016," says Pelosi. "People thought Hillary [Clinton] would win so they didn’t all turn out. Nobody could possibly think that somebody like Donald Trump could be elected president of the United States. But if you don’t turn out, those who do turn out will call the shots.” Pelosi says she has "real problems" with Trump because he "doesn't tell the truth, he doesn't honor the Constitution and he's harming children." “My whole message is about children. Anybody who hurts children — I’m a lioness. Watch out," the 17-term lawmaker says. But she expresses optimism about the future: “The greatness of America is such that we will withstand what [Trump] has done and move on from that. I feel confident about our ability to do that,” she says. Pelosi, 79, also reveals some of her binge-watching preferences in the wide-ranging interview. She estimates that she watched 2018's "Bohemian Rhapsody" 15 times during plane rides and says she's a fan of Netflix's "The Crown." “I think the arts will be our salvation as a country,” she tells the mag. “It’s a place where people can do something together. Communicate. Laugh. Cry. Be inspired." "I’ve been saying this for years, but now even more so, the arts will set us free.” View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.