This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


Attendees for a Goldman Sachs investor conference focusing on ESG scheduled for Thursday were notified on Wednesday morning the event would be switched to an audio-only webcast.At this time, the status of other Goldman Sachs events it has planned in the near-term is unclear.From travel restrictions to work-from-home policies, Wall Street has been forced to adapt as the coronavirus has spread globally. Click her for more BI Prime stories.


Fears around coronavirus just forced one Wall Street bank to make a last-minute switch to an investor conference.Attendees of Goldman Sachs' Sustain Symposium, an investor conference focusing on environmental, social, and governance (ESG), were informed on Wednesday morning that the event, scheduled for Thursday, had been changed to an audio-only webcast.A spokesperson for Goldman Sachs confirmed the conference will no longer take place at the banks' headquarters in downtown Manhattan. Over 400 people had signed up for the conference, according to a source familiar with the situation. It was not immediately clear if all future Goldman Sachs events will be cancelled.Wall Street is grappling with how best to address concerns around the coronavirus while still running their businesses. Several banks have already suspended non-essential international travel.


Meanwhile, conferences haven't remained immune to the impact of the disease, which has already impacted more than 94,000 people. The casualties among big conferences include Facebook's annual Global Marketing Summit and the Mobile World Congress, the biggest smartphone event of the year. Earlier this week FIA Boca, one of the largest annual market structure conferences for Wall Street, was cancelled as well. 



Get the latest Goldman Sachs stock price here.













Morgan Stanley just halted employees' international travel and is stocking up on hand sanitizer as coronavirus spreads