This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


Ken Stuzin sets a high bar for mutual-fund investments.He bets only on companies that will consistently double the earnings growth of the broader market.His fund has outperformed during the coronavirus-linked sell-off, and it also ranks as one of the best in the world over the past five years.Stuzin told Business Insider about three picks that he believes will keep the fund at the top because of their strong growth — even if the stocks have pulled off big rallies in recent years.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


The market chaos of the past few weeks has tested investors. But Ken Stuzin can say his strategy worked the way it was supposed to.For the past 21 years, Stuzin has managed the Brown Advisory Growth Equity Fund, which Kiplinger ranks as one of the 10 best large-cap mutual funds. It has maintained that status for one-, three-, and five-year periods. Despite its focus on growth stocks, it held up well in the turmoil of the past month, beating 97% of its peers over the month that ended on March 3.That's because he's looking for companies that are going to consistently and emphatically earn more than the rest of the market, Stuzin said."We're looking for business models that can reasonably support a 14% or better EPS growth rate through the full market cycle," he told Business Insider in an exclusive interview. "The reason that 14 is the number is that 14 is double the long-term EPS growth rate of the S&P 500. And we did that to signal to people that our view and definition of growth was not wildly flexible."The results of that rule is a portfolio concentrated in 33 stocks. While Stuzin always intends to stick with his investments for the long term, he said "the law of large numbers" was an issue. Eventually, companies that are still very successful by other measures can't maintain the growth rate he demands.


Even among that elite group, Stuzin said the three listed below stood out, even if they've enjoyed strong performance in recent years.(1) DexcomDexcom, which makes devices for people with diabetes who continuously monitor their blood-sugar levels, has skyrocketed more than 2,800% over the past decade. Stuzin thinks it's set up for more long-term dominance because its products could change the way people with diabetes manage their illness.The device "makes the treatment of the disease incredibly simple" compared with older products like finger-stick tests, he said. "But making a better healthcare product is only part of the battle," Stuzin added.He said it could also slash the cost of treating diabetes, and that's a critical issue for people with the disease, as well as employers, insurers, and governments."We're spending a hundred billion or more every year in treating Type 1 diabetes, and that doesn't even count people with severe forms of Type 2 diabetes who ought to be more actively managing insulin," he said. "If you're not bending the cost curve, particularly for the US marketplace, then you're not really a viable investment."


(2) Electronic ArtsElectronic Arts has underperformed the broader stock market over the past few years, but Stuzin said it has stronger game franchises than any of its peers. He highlighted its "FIFA" soccer games as especially critical. That's because he believes international soccer has caught on in an unprecedented way with young people in the two largest economic powers."If you think globally about how young people think about soccer in two very big markets, one in China and one in the United States, there's a lot of growth there," he said. "That, to me, has a terrific long-term growth potential."He added that EA might also benefit from the fear surrounding the coronavirus outbreak, which could prompt people to change their entertainment habits. "If you're worried about people not leaving their house for the next six months around the world, being able to download games on Electronic Arts is a good fundamental business," he said.


(3) ZoetisStuzin is bearish on biotech and pharmaceutical companies, partly because of the lingering threat of regulation that will affect drug prices, he said. He said the only exception to that rule was animal-medication maker Zoetis, which has outperformed since it split from Pfizer in 2013.There are two parallel trends that should keep the company's sales and earnings far ahead of the market in the years ahead, Stuzin said. One is the growing demand for meat in emerging-market nations like China, which will encourage greater use of antibiotics in livestock. The other involves peoples' furry friends at home. "People are getting married later, having children later, and dogs and cats, mostly dogs, are making up for that sort of lack of companionship," he said. "We in the United States, and increasingly around the world, are willing to spend a huge amount of money to keep our canine friends healthy."