Some passengers on Princess Cruises' Grand Princess ship were told to stay in their rooms while they wait to get screened for the coronavirus, Princess Cruises said in a statement on Wednesday.Two passengers on the Grand Princess' prior cruise have contracted the virus, and one of those passengers died on Wednesday.Over 700 people on Princess Cruises' Diamond Princess contracted the coronavirus after a weekslong quarantine in February.The Grand Princess incident comes on the heels of the weekslong quarantine of passengers and crew members on Princess Cruises' Diamond Princess ship in February.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Some passengers on Princess Cruises' Grand Princess ship were told on Wednesday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to stay in their rooms before receiving coronavirus screenings, the company said in a statement. The order came after a passenger on the Grand Princess' prior cruise died on Wednesday of COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.A second former Grand Princess passenger has also contracted the coronavirus, according to a report from the Miami Herald. Both passengers were on the Grand Princess from February 11 to 21.Princess Cruises, which is owned by Carnival Corp., said in its statement that passengers who were on the Grand Princess between February 11 and 21 should get in touch with a doctor if they develop symptoms of the coronavirus, which include a fever, cough, chills, or troubled breathing.Do you work for Princess Cruises? Were you on the Grand Princess or Diamond Princess during their quarantines? Contact this reporter at mmatousek@businessinsider.com. You can also reach out on Signal at 646-768-4712 or email this reporter's encrypted address at mmatousek@protonmail.com.


The Grand Princess is now nearing the end of a 15-day cruise that began in San Francisco and is scheduled to end there on Thursday.Princess Cruises said in a statement that it was working closely with the CDC and following its recommendations. "The CDC is continuing to actively collect information and is collaborating with us to determine what, if any, actions need to be taken during the current Hawaii cruise and upon the ship's return to San Francisco. We have shared essential travel and health data with the CDC to facilitate their standard notification to the State and County health authorities in order to follow up with individuals who may have been exposed to the people who became ill," the company said. The CDC and Carnival Corp. did not immediately respond to Business Insider's requests for comment.The Grand Princess incident comes on the heels of the weekslong quarantine of passengers and crew members on Princess Cruises' Diamond Princess ship in February. Medical experts criticized the quarantine, saying passengers should not have remained on the ship. Over 700 people who were on the ship ended up contracting the coronavirus by the end of the quarantine, up from 10 when it started, and six people have died. 


Carnival Corp. said on February 12 that cancellations caused by the coronavirus would have a "material impact" on its 2020 earnings. The company said it was not yet able to project the extent of that impact but added that if it had to cancel all of its cruises in Asia through the end of April, it would dent 2020 earnings by $0.55 to $0.65 per share.In December, Carnival projected its adjusted earnings would amount to $4.30 to $4.60 per share this year.