Antonio Sabàto Jr. says he's working construction after being "blacklisted" by Hollywood for his support of President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE. "All my representatives left me, from agents to managers to commercial agents. I literally had to move, find a new job to survive and take care of my kids," the former Calvin Klein model said in an interview this week with Variety. "It’s been terrible. It’s mind-blowing. It’s a disgrace. It’s tough, because if you’re in that environment in Hollywood and you have something to say that they don’t like, they’re going to let you know," Sabàto said. The 48-year-old former "Melrose Place" actor was one of a handful of entertainers to vocally support Trump's 2016 White House bid, and spoke at that year's Republican National Convention. “I was the first celebrity to come out and talk about the president, and he had my vote from day one,” Sabàto told the magazine. But after Trump won office, Sabàto says his job offers in the entertainment industry dried up, forcing him to pack up and move to Florida for construction work. “I go on the job at two in the morning, and I’m making sure that the job is controlled and supervised by me. I’m in the car all day, driving, going through all the sites. Five days a week, nonstop," he explained. The one-time GOP House candidate — Sabàto lost a 2018 bid to unseat Rep. Julia BrownleyJulia Andrews BrownleyAntonio Sabàto Jr: Supporting Trump got me blacklisted Democrats 'frustrated' by administration's coronavirus response after closed-door briefing Pelosi heading to Madrid for UN climate change convention MORE (D-Calif.)  — claims other pro-Trump performers are reluctant to publicly vocalize their support for the commander in chief. “I know a lot of actors who are lying about who they’re going to vote for because they don’t want the crap,” Sabàto said. “They won’t want to be talked about and fired from movie sets. This is serious.” “The reality is the power that makes movies happen in Hollywood — casting directors, producers, executive producers, directors — they’re all liberal," said Sabàto, while also noting he'll vote for Trump's reelection in November. "They hate anyone or anything who supports this president.” View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.