Masks are nearly impossible to find in stock (or for less than $100) online thanks to the new coronavirus and the panic-buying coming with it, but that's the least of your worries. Multiple epidemiologists and infectious disease experts are saying that face masks are not effective in preventing catching the coronavirus, at least for the general public. People take them off to eat, probably aren't wearing them properly, and if they get wet (say, from a sneeze) germs can still pass through. The people who actually need those masks are the medical professionals who are caring for sick patients. The CDC shouldn't have to remind grown-ass adults about this, but your best line of defense against the virus is still keeping your hands clean and keeping frequently-touched household surfaces clean, too.  GOOD MORNING WASH YOUR HANDS — Meena Harris (@meenaharris) March 2, 2020 Stocking up now would also be wise: Hand sanitizers (especially Purell) are basically obsolete at Amazon, Walmart, and the lot, causing pages and pages of "out of stock" notices or price hikes to $100 for one bottle just because they can. Disinfecting wipes and hand soaps aren't looking as bleak, but stocks are dwindling quickly. Going in-store might prove luckier, but for now, here are the must-haves we found that are still in stock (and normally-priced) online: You don't want to know how many other people have touched the door handles, subway poles, or touchscreens at self-checkout before you. While real hand washing with real soap (which is usually antiviral) and real scrubbing can't be replaced, everyone should be armed with a hand sanitizer for the times a sink isn't available. The online hand sanitation supply is so bleak that you can almost see the virtual tumbleweeds, but here are a few we found still in stock. (But hurry: This list originally had more than double the items, which literally disappeared in the few minutes this story was being written). WBM Care Hand Sanitizer with aloe extract (2.1 ounce) — $7.63 at Amazon Dr. Bronner's Organic Hand Sanitizer — $5 at REI CleanWell Botanical Hand Sanitizer Spray (1 ounce, 6 pack) — $16.74 at Amazon safeHands Alcohol-Free Hand Sanitizer — $7.95 at REI Baby Bum Hand Sanitizer Antibacterial Spray — $12.95 at Amazon Purell Sanitizing Hand Wipes (270 count) — $29.41 at Walmart Wet Ones Antibacterial Hand and Face Wipes  (40 count, 4 pack) — $19.73 at Amazon Bath and Body Works PocketBac Hand Sanitizers (5 pack) — $7 at Bath and Body Works Purell Cottony Soft Hand Sanitizing Wipes (18 count) — $3.69 at Target Remember when middle school teachers tried to convince us all that there's a proper way to wash hands and we ignored them? Now is the time to re-learn that. Not even the best hand sanitizer can replace a heavy-duty, 20-second lather, including under nails. Good old hand soap is still more available online than hand sanitizer, but it probably won't last long when people realize Purell is sold out. Softsoap Liquid Hand Soap (7.5 ounce, 6 pack) — $5.82 at Amazon Softsoap Liquid Antibacterial Hand Soap (11.25 ounce) — $1.99 at Target Dial Liquid Hand Soap (7.5 ounce) — $0.99 at Amazon Dial Complete Moisturizing and Antibacterial Foaming Hand Wash (7.5 ounce) — $2.79 at Riteaid Method Coconut Water Foaming Hand Wash (10 ounce, 6 pack) — $17.94 at Amazon Purell Health Hand Soap (12 ounce) — $8.45 at Amazon Love Beauty & Planet Daily Detox Hand Wash Soap (13.5 ounce) — $3.99 at Target Wipe off those doorknobs, faucet handles, and bag straps, folks. Screw it — if you don't have PhoneSoap, wipe your phone, too. Even the items in your home could be crawling with germs that you didn't know you brought inside. Clorox Ultra Clean Disinfecting Wipes (70 count, 2 pack) — $9.99 at Target Clorox Disinfecting Wipes, (75 count, 3 pack) — $9.94 at Walmart Clorox Compostable Cleaning Wipes (75 count) — $5.48 at Walmart Lysol Handi-Pack Disinfecting Wipes (80 count, 4 pack) — $14.99 at Amazon on March 18 Seventh Generation Disinfecting Multi-Surface Wipes (70 count, 3 pack) — $20.61 at Amazon on March 13