President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE is expected to visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters on Friday, Politico first reported. An administration official told CNN that officials had considered bringing Trump to the headquarters earlier in the coronavirus outbreak, but plans were never finalized.  It is unclear if Vice President Mike PenceMichael (Mike) Richard PenceOvernight Health Care: House passes .3B measure to fight coronavirus | US death toll hits 11 | New guidance for nursing homes over virus | Roberts wrestles with Louisiana abortion law in high-stakes case Trump administration issues new guidance for nursing homes to combat coronavirus Trump touts economic success at Hispanic convention MORE, whom Trump put in charge of the administration’s response to the coronavirus outbreak, will join the president on the trip. The Hill reached out to the White House for confirmation.  Trump will head to the CDC after he has butted heads with Nancy Messonnier, the director of the CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.  Messonnier had previously said a coronavirus outbreak in the U.S. is inevitable. "It's not so much of a question of if this will happen anymore but rather more of a question of exactly when this will happen," she said. The president said Messonnier’s remarks caused unnecessary panic. Trump will also visit the National Institutes of Health in Maryland on Tuesday, sources confirmed. The first U.S. fatality from the novel coronavirus was confirmed this weekend after a man in Washington state died. Robert Redfield, the CDC director, said the deceased man caught the virus through community spread. There are 72 cases identified in the U.S., according to Johns Hopkins University data. --Brett Samuels contributed to this report, which was updated at 2:00 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.