A North Carolina politics reporter said Monday that “a lot” of North Carolina voters waited for the South Carolina Democratic primary results to make up their mind. Joe Bruno, a reporter with TV station WSOC in Charlotte, told Hill.TV that the turnout for early voting is “on pace” with the 2016 election turnout. He said he thinks “people will turn out on Election Day.”  He predicted that voters wanted to see the results in Nevada and South Carolina before making their picks. “I mean this primary has changed every single day,” he said. “I think there's a lot of voters who haven’t made up their mind until just now.” Bruno said he thought North Carolina voters were particularly interested in how former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE performed in neighboring South Carolina.  “I do I think a lot of North Carolina voters were seeing how competitive Biden could be in South Carolina and seeing if his campaign has fight in him,” he said. Biden received a boost from his win in South Carolina, earning 39 of the state’s 54 delegates. The former vice president currently sits at 54 delegates the day ahead of Super Tuesday, while Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) leads with 60 delegates.  Another moderate, former South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE, dropped out of the presidential race Sunday night with 26 delegates. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.