This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


A string of primary-election wins for former Vice President Joe Biden is contributing to Wednesday's rally and likely to reassure investors, according to market strategists.They said traders were growing worried that Sen. Bernie Sanders would win the Democratic nomination and President Trump's odds of winning a second term were diminishing.A contest between Trump and Biden, a relatively moderate Democrat, might be one Wall Street can live with because it doesn't threaten huge regulatory reforms or economic shake-ups.  Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Which has been through more twists and turns over the past few weeks: the stock market or the presidential primaries?Stocks climbed on Wednesday after former Vice President Joe Biden put up a strong showing on Super Tuesday, winning at least nine out of the 14 states that voted and forcing yet another rival out of the race. It's an outcome that looked unlikely from early February until Biden's big win in the South Carolina primary on Saturday.The main cause of the market's plunge in the past two weeks was the coronavirus outbreak, along with investors' fears about how much economic damage it will cause. But experts said the Democratic primary process was a significant factor as well.For one, the Wall Street critic and self-described democratic socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders did well in the early states, while the billionaire businessman and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg struggled in debates and polls. At the same time, some investors think the Trump administration's response to the outbreak may have dented the president's chances at reelection."The 2020 election has also played a significant role (in the selloff) due to Sanders' YTD surge and Bloomberg's post Nevada stumble," Lori Calvasina, the head of US equity strategy for RBC Capital Markets, wrote. "Trump's stumble is a problem for the stock market, which has been baking in his re-election in November."


She added: "Since last July, Trump's odds in the betting market and price action in the S&P 500 have been moving in lockstep with one another."Expectations for a Biden presidencyBut just as traders were caught off guard by Sanders' results in the first few states, they're glad to see signs that Biden might be pulling into the lead. He has called for slightly higher taxes on corporations and the wealthy, for example, and hasn't joined Sanders' and Sen. Elizabeth Warren's calls to restrict stock buybacks and create new wealth taxes, which could affect both corporate strategy and investment decisions."Wall Street will be happy to see either President Trump re-elected or a Biden Presidency," Edward Moya, a senior market analyst for Oanda, wrote. "One of the biggest risks to the outlook for US stocks was having Bernie Sanders (and all his regulatory threats on tech and healthcare reform) win the presidency."David Kelly, the chief global strategist for JPMorgan Asset Management, said on a conference call that the wins for Biden have diminished the threat of Sanders' winning and dulled the chances of Democrats winning full control of the government, which would enable them to attempt larger-scale reforms."A political tail risk has diminished," he said. "The election of a left-wing candidate in a Democratic sweep would probably be regarded as a negative for markets."


He still thinks there's a chance Democrats can win full control of the House and Senate under Biden, but even that scenario may be one that the markets can live with.Calvasina of RBC added that the investors she has surveyed preferred Bloomberg to any other Democratic nominee, but as the primaries have gone on, growing numbers of them are seeing a Biden win as positive for stocks. Almost none of them felt that way about Sanders or Warren. 






 

The most extreme example of that bullishness, in which Biden's agenda is seen as starkly different from Sanders', is visible in Wednesday's huge rally for healthcare companies. Calvasina said healthcare "has had a decent relationship with Biden's odds in the betting markets for quite some time."While investors seemed glad to see Sanders fall behind in the race, Kelly and other experts said the lesson they should take away is that the race could change rapidly again and it's dangerous to make assumptions about the outcome."There is a major chance that we will not know the nominee until July," John Vail, the chief global strategist for Nikko Asset Management, said. "The fate of Congress is very important too and is highly unpredictable in an increasingly negative virus and economy scenario."