This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


An Accenture employee in China has been diagnosed with coronavirus, according to an internal company memo seen by Business Insider. The memo, sent to employees by Accenture CEO Julie Sweet, stated "more than 100 colleagues in China and Italy who have been quarantined due to government restrictions."Concerns over the coronavirus outbreak has led major companies like Google and Apple to take actions that include restricting employees' international travel. Click here for more BI Prime stories.


An Accenture employee in China has been diagnosed with coronavirus, according to an internal memo sent to employees that was seen by Business Insider. The memo, sent from CEO Julie Sweet's email address, further stated that there have been "more than 100 colleagues in China and Italy who have been quarantined due to government restrictions."The consulting firm asked employees to "cancel any non-essential international travel and do not plan any additional until further notice," Sweet wrote in the memo. Accenture did not immediately respond to Business Insider's request for comment. "Around the world we are offering support to our people and their families who are managing challenging circumstances," Sweet wrote in the memo. "This outbreak continues to be a fluid situation that we are watching closely." Growing concerns over the coronavirus outbreak has led major companies like Google and Apple to restrict employee travel, Business Insider previously reported. The coronavirus, which causes a disease known as COVID-19, has killed more than 3,100 people and infected more than 92,000 worldwide. The vast majority of the cases — about 87% — are in China. Accenture has its footprint in over 40 industries and has more than 450,000 global employees.


This story is emerging and may be updated or expanded upon.If you have a tip about a consulting firm that you'd like to share with Business Insider, please email Weng Cheong at wcheong@businessinsider.com.