* Soybean futures gain ground after Friday's lower close * Corn firms after ending little changed, wheat dips * Global markets recover on monetary stimulus hopes (Adds details, quote in paragraph 3, 4) SINGAPORE, March 2 (Reuters) - Chicago soybeans rose on Monday to a one-week high as global markets recovered on hopes of monetary stimulus, although gains were curbed by concerns over declining demand in top importer China due to the coronavirus outbreak. Corn gained ground, while wheat edged lower. "Demand has weakened mainly for soybeans in China and we have abundant supplies," said one Singapore-based trader at an international trading company. "For wheat, we don't expect Chicago futures to rally as prices in the physical market are on a downward trend." The most-active soybean contract on the Chicago Board Of Trade added 0.5% at $8.97-1/4 a bushel by 0330 GMT, near the session high of $9.01 a bushel - the highest since Feb. 21. Soybeans closed down 0.3% on Friday. Corn was up 0.9% at $3.71-1/2 a bushel and wheat lost 0.1% to $5.24-1/4 a bushel. Asian shares steadied from early losses as investors placed their hopes on a coordinated global monetary policy response to weather the damaging economic impact of the coronavirus epidemic. Leaders in Europe, the Middle East and the Americas rolled out bans on big gatherings and stricter travel restrictions over the weekend as cases of the new coronavirus spread. Central banks worldwide are expected to cut interest rates in a bid to contain the economic fallout of the virus. Soybean farmers in Brazil, which is on track for a record production this year, had harvested 43.1% of the planted area through Friday, compared with 56% at this time last year, when the beans were sowed and collected earlier, agribusiness consultancy Arc Mercosul said on Friday. Argentina's Ministry of Agriculture last week suspended the registration of agricultural exports until further notice, it said, a move that traders said likely foreshadowed a steep increase in grains export tariffs. Large speculators increased their net short position in CBOT corn futures in the week to Feb. 25, regulatory data released on Friday showed. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission's weekly commitments of traders report also showed that non-commercial traders, a category that includes hedge funds, cut their net long position in CBOT wheat and trimmed their net short position in soybeans. (Reporting by Naveen Thukral; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu)