Vice President Pence said that White House briefings on the coronavirus outbreak will likely be "back on camera" starting Wednesday, following an off-camera briefing Tuesday. “What we want to do is give real-time information in a steady pace and be fully transparent," Pence told reporters Tuesday when asked about the nature of the briefing. “I expect we’ll be back on camera tomorrow." The vice president noted that President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE had gone to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) earlier Tuesday and that the administration is regularly briefing the press on the outbreak. The White House will issue a written transcript of Pence's briefing likely later Tuesday. Still photos, but no audio or video, were permitted during the briefing. The vice president’s office has been handling media messaging about the U.S. response to the virus since Pence was tasked with leading the administration's efforts last week. Administrations regularly hold off-camera briefings with reporters to provide updates on policies and initiatives. But the coronavirus outbreak has forced the White House to provide more regular updates about the spreading virus and efforts to contain it. Tuesday’s off-camera briefing followed three on-camera briefings the White House had in the past five days regarding the coronavirus outbreak. The White House also held an off-camera briefing last week with Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and other officials. A transcript of that event was later distributed. Pence told reporters Tuesday that there are 77 domestic cases in the U.S., and nine total domestic deaths. The confirmed cases in the U.S. are spread across 13 states, he said. The virus originated in Wuhan, China, and has since spread globally. The World Health Organization said Tuesday there are nearly 91,000 reported cases and more than 3,100 deaths worldwide. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.