Former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE said Sunday that Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) would have “great trouble” helping Democrats retain the House and win the Senate if he is the party's is the nominee. “You’re convinced that the Democrats will lose big in November if Bernie Sanders is the nominee?” host George StephanopoulosGeorge Robert StephanopoulosTrump campaign sues Washington Post for libel Head of HHS says 'partisan sniping' during coronavirus crisis is 'unnecessary' Biden says Sanders would have 'great trouble' helping Democrats keep House, win Senate MORE asked Biden on ABC's "This Week."  The former vice president also said voters face a "stark choice" between himself and Sanders. “It’s not about whether we restore the soul of the Democratic Party,” Biden said. “It’s about restore the soul, uniting this country, the whole country, and I think I can do that.”  NEW: @GStephanopoulos: “You’re convinced that the Democrats will lose big in November if Bernie Sanders is the nominee? Joe Biden: “He’ll have great trouble bringing along other senators, keeping the House of Representatives, winning back the Senate...” https://t.co/23kgGkwFyy pic.twitter.com/RPkrKTi4xD  Sanders, who also appeared on ABC’s “This Week” denied Biden’s arguments, calling them “absolutely untrue.” “We’re gonna come together because we all understand that Donald TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE is the greatest threat to this country in the modern history of this country,” Sanders said.  “That’s absolutely untrue,” Bernie Sanders tells @GStephanopoulos when asked about Biden criticism that Sanders would be a “burden” for House and Senate candidates.“We’re going to come together,” he adds, touting relationships with Pelosi and Schumer. https://t.co/wGwD0uWZ3e pic.twitter.com/zF7CidWjXH  Biden had struggled to keep up with Sanders who won contests in New Hampshire and Nevada and was the runner-up in Iowa. With the former vice president's win on Saturday in South Carolina, he now has 48 delegates, compared to Sanders’s 56. Ten South Carolina delegates have yet to be awarded. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.