NBC's "Saturday Night Live" took aim at the Trump administration for appointing Vice President Pence to lead its coronavirus response efforts. In its latest cold open, the cast presented a mock press conference in the White House briefing room, with Pence addressing the administration's response. The skit also included a range of Democratic presidential candidates crashing the address and making comments about the deadly virus and how to combat it.  It began with Pence, played by Beck Bennett, introducing himself and noting that President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE "put me in charge of the coronavirus, even though I don't believe in science." "I have to admit, this disease has been quite a test of my faith. Just like dinosaur bones or Timothée Chalamet. But I'm prepared for the challenge," Bennett's Pence said before introducing Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben CarsonBenjamin (Ben) Solomon CarsonTrump touts economic success at Hispanic convention Democratic lawmakers rip Carson over cuts to housing budget, policies Carson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging MORE.   Carson, played by Kenan Thompson, then noted his credentials, calling himself the "brain surgeon they put in charge of house development." "Well this is something I do know about, and rest assured, in my expert opinion, it's going to be bad," Thompson's Carson said, prompting Bennett's Pence to argue that there are precautions people can take. The comment prompted Thompson's Carson to urge people to acquire "Make America Great Again masks from the White House website," which are "made in Wuhan, China," a reference to the city where the disease originated.  The skit then moved into a mashup of appearances from Democratic presidential candidates, including former New York City Mayor Michael BloombergMichael BloombergBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE, played by Fred Armisen.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.