This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


Google has barred its employees from traveling internationally for work, according to multiple sources within the company.Last week, an employee in Google's Zurich office tested positive for the coronavirus disease, prompting further travel restrictions at the company. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Google has barred its employees from traveling internationally for work as fears over the coronavirus continue to grow.The outbreak is causing disruption to businesses around the world — interrupting supply chains and forcing the cancellation of major events. COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, has sickened more than 90,000 people and killed more than 3,000, with most cases in China.In an email sent to employees earlier this week, Google told workers they would not be permitted to travel internationally unless they were granted an exception for critical work, a source familiar with the matter told Business Insider. Employees traveling were advised to return home. The memo said there was no new guidance for employees traveling domestically.A Google spokesperson confirmed that the company was placing the additional restrictions on international travel.The news comes after Google asked its thousands of Dublin staffers to work from home after a worker exhibited flu-like symptoms and an employee in Zurich tested positive for the coronavirus. Google has also effectively canceled its Google Cloud Next conference in San Francisco, switching it to an online-only event.


Google previously restricted employee travel to Italy, Iran, China, Japan, and South Korea.It's not clear if the travel ban also applies to employees at Google's parent company, Alphabet.Do you work at Google or Alphabet and have a story to share? Contact this reporter using a nonwork device via encrypted messaging app Signal (+1 650-636-6268), encrypted email (robaeprice@protonmail.com), standard email (rprice@businessinsider.com), Telegram/Wickr/WeChat (robaeprice), or Twitter DM (@robaeprice). PR pitches by standard email only, please.



Get the latest Google stock price here.