The climate change group 350 Action announced on Monday that it is endorsing both Sens. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.) in the Democratic presidential primary. The group, which works to get climate champions elected, has a "Climate Test" for candidates that both senators passed. It includes support for the Green New Deal and signing a no fossil fuel money pledge, among other issues. “We cannot afford to wait till 2030 or even 2024. We must demand bold action from political candidates now. Senators Sanders and Warren have in their careers and this contest raised the level of debate in favor of  climate justice,” 350 Action’s executive director, May Boeve, said in the press release.  Businessman Tom SteyerTom SteyerOn The Trail: Bloomberg's millions can't buy him many delegates Young Turks host: Warren should drop out, back Sanders Trump: Biden 'doesn't know where he is, or what he's doing' MORE was the only other candidate to pass the group’s test, but Steyer dropped out of the race on Saturday. “Bernie is a fighter for economic justice and has made it a cornerstone of his campaign, and has consistently stood side by side with the climate movement. Elizabeth Warren’s model of strong feminist leadership deepens the political shift for the next generation — as someone who relentlessly speaks truth to power and wields her intellect against vested interests in our democracy,” Boeve said. 350 Action has also endorsed incumbents Sens. Ed MarkeyEdward (Ed) John MarkeyMarkey questions Amazon on price gouging due to coronavirus Hillicon Valley: Democrats in talks to bridge surveillance divide | DHS confident in Super Tuesday election security | State pledges M cyber help to Ukraine | Facebook skipping SXSW amid coronavirus Markey presses facial recognition company over Middle Eastern marketing, potential child privacy violations MORE (D-Mass.) and Jeff MerkleyJeffrey (Jeff) Alan MerkleySenators see tide turning toward Biden after big win Climate group endorses both Sanders and Warren Interest rate caps are popular — for good reason MORE (D-Ore.) and Reps. Ilhan OmarIlhan OmarThe Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - A huge night for Joe Biden The Memo: Biden shakes up Democratic race with Super Tuesday wins Omar calls out lack of 'united progressive movement' as Biden wins big on Super Tuesday MORE (D-Minn.) and Alexandria Ocasio-CortezAlexandria Ocasio-CortezOcasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-N.Y.), among several others. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.