Sen. Kyrsten Sinema (D-Az.) on Wednesday endorsed former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE for president following a series of resounding victories for the moderate Democrat in the Super Tuesday primaries. Biden is a “pragmatic, practical leader best positioned to get things done for everyday families," Sinema said in a statement to 12 News. "We certainly don't agree on every issue; I always vote for Arizona first. “Vice President Biden is authentic, genuine, and has a track record of building bipartisan coalitions to achieve results," she added. "Not all candidates in this race represent those Arizona values. Joe Biden does."  pic.twitter.com/XM2jYavrhI  Biden previously endorsed Sinema’s 2018 Senate campaign and fundraised for her in Phoenix. Her endorsement comes as her fellow Arizona senator, Sen. Martha McSallyMartha Elizabeth McSallyArizona senator Kyrsten Sinema endorses Biden Appeals court refuses to throw out Joe Arpaio's guilty verdict after Trump pardon The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Facebook - Trump on US coronavirus risks: 'We're very, very ready for this' MORE (R-Az.), has attempted to tie her likely opponent, Mark Kelly, to Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.). “Kelly is quickly making the choice in this election very clear – a vote for Kelly is a vote for the Bernie Sanders socialist policies of government takeover of healthcare, open borders, and massive tax hikes on the middle class,” McSally campaign manager Dylan Lefler said in a statement announcing a February ad. “Mark Kelly will be Sanders's 51st vote in the Senate." View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.