This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


WeWork gave coronavirus guidance to US members on Tuesday after a Business Insider inquiry, well after the disease spread to the US. Other major tech companies have closed offices and encouraged their workers to work remotely, or banned noncritical travel altogether.WeWork closed more than 100 locations in China and is increasing office cleanings, a spokeswoman said.The COVID-19 outbreak has sickened more than 90,000 people and killed more than 3,000.For more WeWork stories, click here.


This story has been updated with WeWork's Tuesday afternoon email to members about the coronavirus. WeWork gave its US tenants guidance on the coronavirus on Tuesday, weeks after the first US case of the deadly viral disease was confirmed. COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, has sickened about 90,000 people and killed more than 3,000, and it is causing disruption around the globe. Major events have been canceled, and company supply chains are being disrupted. Many major companies are locking down their offices and encouraging workers to work from home. Others are banning noncritical travel altogether.On Tuesday afternoon, WeWork emailed its members about how it's approaching operations and best practices for members. The email came an hour after Business Insider published a story noting that the company had not sent member-wide communication about how the coronavirus might affect WeWork's operations. Those members that had not received earlier guidance included one in the state of Washington, where seven people have died from the virus.—heater (@heat_the_great) February 27, 2020The coworking spaces are hubs of activity and typically home to dozens of businesses at each location, with numerous people coming and going — making them a potential high-risk zone for transmission.


Business Insider has various WeWork-based offices around the country, including in Boston, Los Angeles, and downtown San Francisco. None had received guidance from the company on its plans before Tuesday. The only previous email from WeWork that mentioned the virus came in mid-February. It was in reference to a donation drive the company is having to support a nongovernment organization working to combat the outbreak across the Asia-Pacific region. Additional bottles of hand sanitizer have also appeared in the kitchen areas.Three New York City members said they had not received any official communication before the Tuesday afternoon email.One Manhattan member, talking to Business Insider before she received the afternoon email, said, "I'm surprised they haven't addressed coronavirus specifically, since they have sent out a few proactive emails about cold and flu season and set up a station on the second floor with tissues and cough drops and tea."—Michael J. Coren (@MJ_Coren) February 28, 2020Additionally, WeWork did not send any emails before Tuesday afternoon about the coronavirus to tenants in Seattle and Bellevue, Washington, the epicenter of a fatal outbreak in the US.In the guidance sent to members on Tuesday, WeWork says it is following instructions from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, prepared to close offices if necessary, and increasing its cleaning regimen.


Reached for comment, a WeWork representative wrote:All WeWork locations are subject to increased daytime cleaning and regular sanitation of common touchpoints, and we are providing members with additional sanitation products. WeWork locations in higher-risk regions have heightened levels of preventative measures, including temporary building closures in some instances. We continue to communicate directly with members, vendors and employees affected by changes to our procedures and operations based on their locations.The Company also has a mandatory 14-day 'work from home' policy for any employee recently returning from high-risk regions, as well as those who exhibit flu-like symptoms, such as respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath or breathing difficulties. Documentation from a medical provider is required to return to work. The list of high-risk regions is informed by guidance from the CDC and continues to expand; all non-essential business travel to these places is also restricted until further notice. WeWork's travel restrictions are updated regularly and subject to change as we continue to evaluate travel risks worldwide. WeWork members have been made aware of these policies and are encouraged to adhere to the same guidelines for the health and safety of the people in our workspaces. WeWork reserves the authority to limit access to our spaces for health and safety reasons.The company has closed more than 100 WeWork locations in China, the country bearing the brunt of the virus.Meanwhile, the social-networking firm Twitter is recommending that all of its employees work from home because of the outbreak, and Google has also required its Dublin employees to work remotely after a worker exhibited flu-like symptoms. Facebook is barring employees from bringing social guests to the office and clamping down on in-person interviews.


Got a tip? Contact this reporter using a nonwork device via encrypted messaging app Signal (+1 650-636-6268), encrypted email (robaeprice@protonmail.com), standard email (rprice@businessinsider.com), Telegram/Wickr/WeChat (robaeprice), or Twitter DM (@robaeprice).PR pitches by standard email only, please.Read more:Instagram's lax privacy practices let a trusted partner track millions of users' physical locations, secretly save their stories, and flout its rulesFacebook says it 'unintentionally uploaded' 1.5 million people's email contacts without their consentYears of Mark Zuckerberg's old Facebook posts have vanished. The company says it 'mistakenly deleted' them.