President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE formally sent his nomination for Rep. John RatcliffeJohn Lee RatcliffeThe Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - A huge night for Joe Biden Ratcliffe nomination puts Susan Collins in tough spot Susan Collins withholding judgment on Trump's top intelligence pick MORE (R-Texas) to become the director of national intelligence (DNI) to the Senate Monday. Ratcliffe had previously been considered to take on the head intelligence role, but he withdrew after public scrutiny over his experience. The representative currently sits on the House Intelligence and Judiciary committees and played a role in the House impeachment inquiry. He would replace Dan CoatsDaniel (Dan) Ray CoatsRatcliffe nomination puts Susan Collins in tough spot Susan Collins withholding judgment on Trump's top intelligence pick Trump formally sends Ratcliffe nomination for DNI to Senate MORE, who resigned last July. The position has been filled in an acting capacity since then.    I am pleased to announce the nomination of @RepRatcliffe (Congressman John Ratcliffe) to be Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Would have completed process earlier, but John wanted to wait until after IG Report was finished. John is an outstanding man of great talent!  Time has not changed the criticism of Ratcliffe among Democrats, with Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Calif.) condemning the representative for showing “a clear disrespect and distrust” of the intelligence community.  Last week, Trump tapped Richard Grenell to fill in for acting DNI Joseph MaguireJoseph MaguireTrump formally sends Ratcliffe nomination for DNI to Senate Senior administration officials warn of foreign influence campaigns ahead of Super Tuesday Schumer urges GOP to oppose Trump's intel pick  MORE, who was reportedly pushed out after a senior DNI official briefed the House Intelligence Committee on Russian efforts to help the president get reelected. Later reports said the briefer may have overstated the threat. Critics also denounced the president for choosing Grenell to fill the acting position, saying he based his decision to appoint the former U.S. spokesman at the United Nations on loyalty instead of experience.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.