President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE signaled Wednesday that he would make the dealings of former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE and his son Hunter in Ukraine a “major issue” during the presidential campaign should Biden win the Democratic nomination.  “That will be a major issue in the campaign. I will bring that up all the time because I don’t see any way out,” Trump told Fox News host Sean HannitySean Patrick HannityTrump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue Nikki Haley expected to endorse Loeffler in Senate race The Hill's Morning Report — Presented by Facebook — Washington, Wall Street on edge about coronavirus  MORE in an interview that aired Wednesday night. “I don’t believe they’ll be able to answer those questions.” Hannity specifically asked Trump whether he would make allegations of corruption on the part of Biden and his family in Ukraine an issue on the campaign trail.  Trump and his allies have amplified discredited allegations that Biden, as vice president, pushed for the removal of a Ukrainian prosecutor in order to help shield his son, who at the time was working for Ukrainian gas company Burisma Holdings, from scrutiny. Trump in July urged Ukraine’s president to investigate the Bidens in a call that ultimately led to Trump’s impeachment in the Democrat-controlled House, but the allegations have seemed to fade from public attention since the conclusion of the impeachment trial last month. Trump was acquitted of both charges — abuse of power and obstruction of Congress — by the GOP-controlled Senate in two near party-line votes. Trump has insisted he did nothing wrong in his actions, accusing Democrats of a partisan "witch hunt" meant to damage his election prospects.  Trump asserted Wednesday that the Bidens’ actions were “totally corrupt” and that the media did not sufficiently scrutinize them. The president pointed to what he described as a “mild question” about Hunter Biden’s business dealings that CNN’s Anderson Cooper asked the former vice president during a Democratic primary debate in October. Trump’s remarks came the same day that Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman Ron JohnsonRonald (Ron)  Harold JohnsonAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue GOP senator to force vote next week in Biden, Burisma probe MORE (R-Wis.) told reporters he would likely release an interim report on his committee’s investigation of Hunter Biden’s dealings with Burisma within the next one to two months. Johnson said the timing of the investigation had nothing to do with the election but that, if he were a Democratic primary voter, he would “want these questions satisfactorily answered before I cast my final vote,” according to Politico. Biden is viewed as the new front-runner for the Democratic nomination for president after a strong showing on Super Tuesday. Trump said Wednesday that he believed Biden would be the nominee, before adding “I just know how he gets across the line” and pointing to Biden’s recent gaffes. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.