Shared Destiny. Shared Responsibility. At least 10 have died in Washington state and one in California from COVID-19. Story at a glance The novel coronavirus in the United States has left at least 11 people dead, according to the New York Times.  The first death of the virus outside of Washington State, where 10 people who were infected with COVID-19 have died, was reported Wednesday in Northern California.  The Times reports the elderly patient in Placer County, Calif., had underlying health issues and was in isolation at a hospital after being exposed to the virus last month on a cruise ship from San Francisco to Mexico.  “We extend our deepest condolences to the loved ones of this patient,” Dr. Aimee Sisson, the health officer for Placer County, said in a statement. “This death is an unfortunate milestone in our efforts to fight this disease, and one that we never wanted to see.”  The Times reports the number of reported cases in California has hit 51, the most of any other state. Meanwhile, health officials in Los Angeles County announced six new cases Wednesday and declared a health emergency. San Francisco and Santa Clara County have also declared health emergencies.  New York City officials also on Wednesday announced four more cases, bringing the state’s total to six confirmed patients. Five of those cases come from community spread among a family and neighbor. The company is responding to suggestions its vodka can be turned into hand sanitizer.  The company is responding to suggestions its vodka can be turned into hand sanitizer.  U.S. health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the country. U.S. health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the country. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. America is changing fast! Sign up for our newsletter to stay informed and engaged.