The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. "The two paths that she potentially sees to winning do not actually exist," Iadarola told Hill.TV. "There is no electoral path, she's potentially not going to win a single state, including [Massachusetts]." To clinch the Democratic presidential nomination, a candidate must have 1,991 pledged delegates. Doing well in California, which boasts 415 pledged delegates, would help any of the candidates get closer to that number.  After being crowded for months, the Democratic primary race has thinned since the weekend, with billionaire Tom SteyerTom SteyerOn The Trail: Bloomberg's millions can't buy him many delegates Young Turks host: Warren should drop out, back Sanders Trump: Biden 'doesn't know where he is, or what he's doing' MORE, Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE all withdrawing from the race. Buttigieg and Klobuchar have since endorsed former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE, whose campaign has found new life after a huge victory in South Carolina's primary on Saturday. Most of the recent national polls have Warren — who has run on a progressive platform similar to Sanders' — in fourth behind Sanders, Biden and Bloomberg.  "The best that she can possibly do, for the country, for the [progressive] movement and for herself and her future is to drop out now and support Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE," Iadarola said. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.