A new book claims that the glowing orb that President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE, King Salman of Saudi Arabia and Egyptian President Abdel Fatah al-Sisi were pictured touching in a viral image was hidden by officials after the Saudis gave it to the U.S. In his book “MBS,” a profile of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, New York Times correspondent Ben Hubbard writes that after the 2017 photo taken at a Riyadh summit, the Saudis left the orb at the American Embassy, The Guardian reported. “It sat in a hallway for a number of days, where diplomats passing by would pose for photos,” Hubbard wrote, but “someone apparently worried that the photos would make their way online and cause a scandal, so the orb was hidden away in embassy storage.” The three took the photograph, which sparked numerous memes and parodies, as part of the launch of Saudi Arabia’s Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology.  And here’s Trump at the opening of the “Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology” in Riyadh pic.twitter.com/gshRT2nFLU  The book, set to be published next week, also details the Saudi crown prince’s role in Saudi foreign policy, including the war in Yemen, and his connections with the murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi in October 2018 in a Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Hubbard also claims the Saudis appear to have attempted to hack his phone, echoing claims by Amazon founder Jeff BezosJeffrey (Jeff) Preston BezosMarkey questions Amazon on price gouging due to coronavirus Hillicon Valley: Lawmakers seek 5G rivals to Huawei | Amazon, eBay grilled over online counterfeits | Judge tosses Gabbard lawsuit against Google | GOP senator introduces bill banning TikTok on government devices Lawmakers grill Amazon, eBay executives over online counterfeits MORE. The Hill has reached out to the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh for comment.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.