This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


As the coronavirus has spread in recent days, Morgan Stanley is shifting about half of its institutional-securities traders to its disaster-recovery site in Westchester County, New York, according to a person familiar with the situation.The bank's plans come days after it halted employees' nonessential international travel amid the outbreak.Visit BI Prime for more stories.


Morgan Stanley is shifting about half of its institutional-securities traders to its disaster-recovery site in Westchester, New York, as the coronavirus spreads, according to communications seen by Business Insider. The bank's plans for its trading desk come days after the firm halted all employees' nonessential travel outside the US and said additional changes may be made. A company spokesperson declined to comment.On Sunday, Morgan Stanley said in a memo to all staff that only business-critical travel outside the US would be permitted, and it must be preapproved by a division head. The firm had about 60,400 global employees as of December 31.Earlier this week, Morgan Stanley asked people attending its technology, media, and telecommunications conference in San Francisco to self-report whether they may have been exposed to the coronavirus, Reuters first reported.New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Thursday morning that two new cases of COVID-19, the disease the coronavirus causes, were confirmed in the city. One new patient is a man in his 40s, de Blasio said, and the other is a woman in her 80s.


That brings the total number of confirmed cases in New York state to 13, multiple news outlets, including NBC News and The New York Times, reported on Thursday.Westchester County has also reported cases of the coronavirus. On Wednesday, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo confirmed five new cases of the virus there.Morgan Stanley, headquartered in midtown Manhattan, created the disaster-recovery site in the Westchester County suburb of Purchase, which is just north of New York City, in the wake of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The firm, which has sales and trading, investment-banking, and wealth-management operations, was housed in the World Trade Center.The Wall Street Journal previously reported that Morgan Stanley was preparing a backup site for staffers in Westchester.Many financial-services firms have taken similar precautions as the coronavirus has spread across different countries, including in the US. JPMorgan has begun shifting sales and trading staff in New York and London to different offices, Reuters reported on Thursday, citing a company memo. 


On Wednesday, UBS told employees in a memo that it was imposing a global restriction on international travel "that is not absolutely business critical," according to a company memo reviewed by Business Insider. The Swiss bank also said all existing international-travel bookings would also require approval and that if an employee or someone in the employee's household had traveled to, from, or through China, South Korea, Italy, or Iran, they are not permitted to enter their office for two weeks after their return."We continue to actively monitor the situation and remain in close contact with the relevant authorities," a spokesperson said.