The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE dropping out of the 2020 presidential race and endorsing former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE.  Grim noted on Hill.TV's "Rising" that supporters of Buttigieg and Klobuchar originally looked at Biden and chose not to support the former vice president.  “People are probably overestimating how many votes Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar and Beto O’Rourke are able to bring with them,” Grim said, referring to the former Democratic congressman from Texas, who has also endorsed Biden.  “All of their support are highly educated people… who studied the race, who took this very seriously from the beginning of last year," he added. "They understood Joe Biden was the guy the establishment thought was the best person to beat Donald TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE. They looked at it closely and they said no.” Grimm said there is no guarantee Buttigieg and Klobuchar's supporters will back Biden.  “The idea that they would have made that decision and they will unmake it because Pete Buttigieg tells them to might be expecting a little too much of Pete Buttigieg’s persuasive power,” he said. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.