Former New York City Mayor Michael BloombergMichael BloombergBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE on Monday said that he agreed with President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE's strategy of putting pressure on China and having open communications with North Korea. “A lot of criticisms of Donald Trump are not his policies, it’s the way he’s doing it," Bloomberg said while speaking at a town hall event in Virginia.  “[China] will be next super power to rival America, and we have to stand up to that,” the billionaire said. Bloomberg said that Trump was right to crack down on China's lax intellectual property laws and that talking with North Korea and its leader, Kim Jong UnKim Jong UnBloomberg says he agrees with Trump policies on China, North Korea North Korea launches two short-range missiles into sea Kim Jong Un warns of 'serious consequences' if coronavirus hits North Korea MORE, was better than the alternative, even if the talks have failed to lead to any concrete progress. Bloomberg made the comments during a town hall that was broadcast by Fox News. On the eve of Super Tuesday — the first time that Bloomberg, who entered the Democratic primary race late, will be on the ballot — Bloomberg at the event predicted that the Democratic convention in July would be contested, meaning that no candidate will have a majority of pledged delegates. “Then it goes to a convention, where there’s horse-trading and everybody decides to compromise on — doesn’t even have to be one of the two leading candidates, it could be somebody that had a smaller number of delegates,” Bloomberg said. Polls leading up to Super Tuesday have the former mayor in either second or third place in most of the 14 states and one territory that cast ballots Tuesday. Bloomberg's strategy, which has included massive ad buys in Super Tuesday states, hinges on finding success in those contests. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.