A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  Gen. Robert Spalding, the former senior director for strategy at NSC, told Hill.TV that it was “terrible” that China wasn’t “transparent and open about what happened with the coronavirus.”  “It’s not just terrible for coronavirus but it’s also terrible for the next potentially global pandemic that might come across,” he said.  The general commended the U.S. government for “finally starting to understand the implications of our supply chain, not just the health ramifications, but the ramifications to our economy and our national security” from the outbreak. He also predicted that the Defense Department will start bringing encouraging the return of manufacturing to the U.S., which he said is “huge for the U.S. economy and the American people.”  Spalding mentioned concerns that almost all medicines have ingredients that come from China, saying the U.S. doesn’t have its “own supply chains for medicines.” “That’s incredibly damaging not just for our national security but also the health of Americans,” he said. The first cases of coronavirus were identified in Wuhan, China last December and have since spread worldwide to infect more than 94,000 people. More than 3,200 people have died from the virus, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.  The U.S. has confirmed 138 cases, with nine deaths in Washington state.  The coronavirus outbreak has caused the stock market to plummet, although the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose more than 500 points on Wednesday after former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE’s wins on Super Tuesday. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.