To view past editions of The Hill's 12:30 Report, click here: http://bit.ly/1M1mIfw To receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox, please sign up here: http://bit.ly/1Tt4hqN --> A midday take on what's happening in politics and how to have a sense of humor about it.* *Ha. Haha. Hahah. Sniff. Haha. Sniff. Ha--breaks down crying hysterically.   The Hill's 12:30 Report: What to watch as Super Tuesday unfolds | Five key states | What each candidate needs | Biden gets bounce in new polls | Sanders poised to win most delegates | Bloomberg's spending, organization put to the test | Fed cuts rates amid coronavirus fears | Trump says it's not enough | Trump to visit NIH | Lawmakers face crunch on surveillance reforms, coronavirus funding    HAPPENING TODAY SUPER-califragilisticexpiali-TUESDAY:   As voters in 14 states and a U.S. territory head to the polls today, former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE got a bump with Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE both dropping out and endorsing his bid. Yikes, what a difference of a few weeks can make: "All of this was stupendous news for Biden, whose campaign was all but left for dead after he performed poorly in Iowa and New Hampshire. He's now emerging as the clear rival to Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) for the Democratic nomination." (Via The Hill's Amie Parnes)  http://bit.ly/2uQhusf A likely outcome tonight:  Sanders is expected to win the most delegates tonight.  Why -- well, because of California and Texas: "[Sanders] should win California in blowout fashion, and he's maintained a healthy lead in polls of Texas throughout the early voting period, when more than 1 million people cast ballots in the Democratic primary." (Via The Hill's Jonathan Easley)  http://bit.ly/39lRns1 When the polls close: Between 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. EST. Here's a list by state: https://cbsn.ws/2VGKEFh   NEW POLL -- BIDEN GOT A BOUNCE: The final FiveThirtyEight Super Tuesday forecast shows Biden and Sanders each likely to win seven states today. http://bit.ly/2uQxE4T     It's Tuesday. I'm Cate Martel with a quick recap of the morning and what's coming up. Send comments, story ideas and events for our radar to cmartel@thehill.com -- and follow along on Twitter @CateMartel and Facebook. Did someone forward this to you? Want your own copy? Sign up here to receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox daily: http://bit.ly/2kjMNnn   Tidbit -- A CNN team ended up at the same restaurant as Biden and Beto O'RourkeBeto  O'RourkeHegar advances to Democratic runoff in Texas Senate race Trump mocks Bloomberg, Warren over early Super Tuesday results Cornyn wins Senate primary in Texas MORE:   When @merica picks a random Whataburger for our team dinner, and @JoeBiden @BetoORourke show up pic.twitter.com/kI7v7tqcCp    WHAT EACH CANDIDATE NEEDS TO ACCOMPLISH: Sanders: "Sanders goes into Super Tuesday as the front-runner. But he needs to solidify his advantage in key ways." Biden: "His main goals are notching some wins and stopping Sanders from opening up a huge delegate lead." Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg: "Bloomberg needs to somehow get past Biden on Super Tuesday -- an objective that has been greatly complicated by the former vice president's South Carolina victory."  Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.): "Survival is the name of the game for Warren." Reasoning for each from The Hill's Niall Stanage: http://bit.ly/38ixRvj    FIVE STATES TO WATCH: California -- With 415 delegates, the most of any state Texas -- With 228 delegates up for grabs, the second most of any state Massachusetts -- Warren's home state. If she doesn't perform well there, she will likely be done. Virginia -- Because of Michael BloombergMichael BloombergBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE. "Bloomberg has visited Virginia seven times, more than any other Super Tuesday state. The campaign has eight offices across the commonwealth, including in the Republican-leaning strongholds of Danville and Roanoke. More than 80 Bloomberg staffers are dispersed throughout Virginia." Alabama -- "African American voters make up a large share of the Democratic vote in Alabama, making the state critical for candidates looking to appeal to a voting group that is widely considered the backbone of the Democratic Party."  Reasoning for each from The Hill's Julia Manchester: http://bit.ly/2Ic8Ze6    LATEST WITH THE CORONAVIRUS Fed cuts interest rates: The Federal Reserve slashed interest rates this morning amid fears of economic turmoil around the coronavirus. http://bit.ly/2PFjxq8 The interest rate cut: The Fed cut rates by 0.5 percentage points. From The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC): "The fundamentals of the U.S. economy remain strong. However, the coronavirus poses evolving risks to economic activity. In light of these risks and in support of achieving its maximum employment and price stability goals, the Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/2 percentage point, to 1 to 1‑1/4 percent."   REACTION FROM President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE -- NOT ENOUGH!: The president tweeted, "The Federal Reserve is cutting but must further ease and, most importantly, come into line with other countries/competitors. We are not playing on a level field. Not fair to USA. It is finally time for the Federal Reserve to LEAD. More easing and cutting!" http://bit.ly/3asQLRp Op-ed: http://bit.ly/3amsk8m   IN CONGRESS On the docket before spring break: Via The Hill's Jordain Carney, Congress has less than 10 working days to reauthorize surveillance programs and pass emergency funding to deal with the coronavirus before leaving for a mid-March break. http://bit.ly/2IcpE10 When Congress is leaving town: March 13 Where legislation stands: "Despite the urgency, there is no clear path for legislation to get through both chambers and to President Trump's desk. Sen. Roy BluntRoy Dean BluntVaccine costs emerge as roadblock to coronavirus funding deal The Hill's 12:30 Report: What to watch as Super Tuesday unfolds Congress scrambles to finalize coronavirus funding, surveillance deals MORE (R-Mo.), a member of leadership, said senators did not get clarity in a closed-door leadership meeting about how they would move the two forthcoming bills by next Friday."    NOTABLE TWEETS Awww:   Smithsonian scientists & @ColumbusZoo have successfully transferred cheetah embryos produced by in vitro fertilization to a surrogate cheetah mom for the first time! Two cubs were born Feb. 19. https://t.co/NK6WkI8YGF @people   ON TAP The House and Senate are in. President Trump and Vice President Pence are in Washington, D.C. 11 a.m. EST: Vice President Pence met with members of the Problem Solvers Caucus. 12:30 – 2:15 p.m. EST: Senators meet for weekly caucus luncheons. Vice President Pence attends both luncheons. The Senate's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/2x9AzGJ 1:30 – 2:30 p.m. EST: First and last votes in the House. The House's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/2PJM8e2 3:15 p.m. EST: President Trump and Vice President Pence tour the Viral Pathogenesis Laboratory in Bethesda, Md.  4:15 p.m. EST: Vice President Pence leads a White House Coronavirus Task Force meeting.    WHAT TO WATCH 11 a.m. EST: President Trump spoke at the National Association of Counties Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C. Livestream: http://bit.ly/2VGHe56 2:30 p.m. EST: President Trump and Vice President Pence participate in a roundtable briefing at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. Livestream: http://bit.ly/2x7CHyz 5:30 p.m. EST: Members of the Coronavirus Task Force hold a press briefing.   NOW FOR THE FUN STUFF... Today is National Mulled Wine Day!   And because you made it this far, here's a wombat chomping on some grass: http://bit.ly/2TgM0Vo View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.