Officials say Vice President Pence he did not have contact with a Florida student who was later quarantined for the coronavirus while visiting the student's school, The Sarasota Herald-Tribune reported Monday. The vice president on Friday reportedly shook hands with the male student’s classmates at the Sarasota Military Academy. The student was later quarantined along with his mother, who came in contact with a patient who tested positive for coronavirus “in her professional role” at Sarasota Doctors Hospital, according to the school’s Facebook post. Both were put in quarantine “as a precautionary measure.” Katie Miller, a spokeswoman for Pence, confirmed on Twitter the vice president "did not meet or come into contact at all with this student." "Can we all take a deep breath?" she asked.  Can we all take a deep breath? @Mike_Pence did not meet or come into contact at all with this student. https://t.co/uLzvnVcoS4   Pence is most likely not going to develop the virus when taking into consideration hand washing, the multiple people between the vice president and the virus, and the fact that the virus cannot survive long outside the body. The vice president shook hands with 44 cadets from the school as part of a political fundraiser, according to The Herald-Tribune. Aides for the vice president told Bloomberg News that Pence is mindful about washing his hands. Pence was asked about potentially canceling travel plans at a news conference Monday.  “I travel across this country all the time. My kids live all over the country,” he said. “And look, this is a time to use common sense." “Good time to wash your hands,” he continued. “But this time of year that’s always a good decision. But as we’ve said, the risk remains low.” Most people experience minor flu-like symptoms when contracting the virus, but those who are older or have underlying health conditions are more at risk. President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE appointed Pence to oversee efforts to combat coronavirus in the country last week. Updated at 5:03 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.