“Jeopardy!” host Alex Trebek has donated $100,000 to a Southern California homelessness nonprofit as the state struggles to confront the growing problem. Trebek donated to the Hope of the Valley Rescue Mission, which aims to prevent, decrease and eliminate poverty, hunger and homelessness, according to its website.  The nonprofit is working on constructing a new facility in North Hollywood, local TV station ABC 7 reported Tuesday. The “Jeopardy!” host asked the nonprofit’s founder Ken Craft for a tour and subsequently provided the donation, according to the news outlet. A multipurpose room at the new building will be named after Trebek and his wife Jean.  Trebek was diagnosed with stage 4 pancreatic cancer last year but has continued to host the long-running game show. He has drawn the world’s attention to pancreatic cancer since his diagnosis, including filming a public service announcement with the World Pancreatic Cancer Coalition.  Homelessness in California has been a contentious subject between President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE and California politicians, including Gov. Gavin NewsomGavin Christopher NewsomCalifornia governor declares state of emergency over coronavirus Alex Trebek donates 0,000 to California homelessness nonprofit Stocks open with steep losses after market slides into coronavirus correction MORE (D). The president and other Republicans have criticized how the state has addressed homelessness during its housing crisis.  Newsom announced a $1 billion budget proposal to reduce homelessness at the beginning of the year and devoted significant time in his state of the state address to the subject.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.