Shared Destiny. Shared Responsibility. A Reuters/Ipsos poll shows that many Americans are taking sound precautions against COVID-19. Story at a glance New data suggests that most Americans are listening to health officials on how to prevent coming down with the coronavirus by following one easy tenant: washing their hands. In a new Reuters/Ipsos public opinion poll, approximately 42 percent of respondents said they were washing their hands and using a disinfectant, like hand sanitizer, more than usual amid the increasing cases of COVID-19 in the U.S.  Another 18 percent said that they were actively avoiding physical contact with others more frequently as the outbreak becomes more global. On top of that, 28 percent of Americans told surveyors that they believe the coronavirus poses an “imminent threat” to the country as opposed to the smaller 22 percent who regard the seasonal flu as a similar danger.  These numbers come in as more cases of COVID-19 are turning fatal in the U.S. Retailers and organizations are also feeling the pressures of taking extra precautions. The NBA, for example, is taking steps to reduce physical contact and thereby decreasing the odds of its players coming down with the virus. Pharmacies are also reportedly having trouble keeping basic hand sanitizers and disinfectants in stock.  Conversely, only 9 percent of respondents have reported COVID-19 as disruptive to their jobs, specifically with issues like declining sales, supply chain issues and attendance or scheduling setbacks. The majority 84 percent reported no effects in their workplace to Reuters, and the remaining 7 percent are unaware of any issues.  There are currently 82,550 cases confirmed worldwide of the coronavirus, with 148 cases currently confirmed in the U.S., according to the Johns Hopkins CSSE real-time map. Regardless, few survey respondents have dramatically altered their lives. Only 5 percent said they are working from home, 6 percent have reportedly cancelled travel plans and just 8 percent have purchased preventative surgical masks — despite evidence that surgical masks don’t necessarily prevent someone from catching a virus. While there is no confirmed vaccine, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends frequent hand-washing and using an alcohol-based cleanser on hands and surfaces for further prevention.  Speaking to reporters on a conference call Tuesday, Dr. Nancy Messonnier, the director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the CDC, said that while risk of contracting the virus is low, more cases are likely to emerge from a mix of contact and community spread.  The company is responding to suggestions its vodka can be turned into hand sanitizer.  The company is responding to suggestions its vodka can be turned into hand sanitizer.  U.S. health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the country. U.S. health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the country. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. America is changing fast! Sign up for our newsletter to stay informed and engaged.