Barbra StreisandBarbara (Barbra) Joan StreisandBarbra Streisand pens anti-Trump op-ed: 'America could be extinguished if he's given another four years' Democrats battle for Hollywood's cash New York woman pleads guilty to stealing 0K from NYPD charity MORE says she fears the country "could be extinguished" if President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE wins reelection in November. The Academy Award winner calls the commander in chief a "one-man weapon of mass destruction" in a blistering op-ed in Variety published Tuesday. "Every morning I wake up, holding my breath while I turn on my phone to see the latest news. I think to myself, 'It can’t be worse than yesterday.' But when the news loads, I think, 'Ohhhhh, yes, it is worse," writes Streisand, one of Hollywood's longtime prominent Democratic donors. Blasting Trump for his administration's handling of the coronavirus, taking credit for an economy she says "he inherited" from former President Obama and withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate accord last year, Streisand says, "Since 2016, we’ve been dragged down into the mud of Trump’s swamp." "We can’t go on like this," Streisand, 77, warns. "It’s too dangerous." "Every day, he takes another swipe at the pillars of our democracy, but we cannot allow him to irrevocably change this country," Streisand writes. "The 'beacon of hope' that is America could be extinguished if he’s given another four years." Streisand, who released a politically charged album critical of Trump ahead of the midterm elections in 2018, urges voters to "bring back dignity and grace" when they cast their ballots in the White House race. "We need a new America," she says, "without pollution, without obscenities, without insults, without revenge." View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.