This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


Morgan Stanley is halting non-essential travel outside the US as the coronavirus spreads, the firm said in a memo to staff. Domestic travel within the US is not restricted, the firm said in the memo. Only business-critical travel outside the US will be permitted and must be pre-approved by a division head, the memo said. Visit BI Prime for more stories.


Morgan Stanley is halting non-essential travel outside the US as the coronavirus spreads, the firm said in a memo to staff sent on Sunday night seen by Business Insider, adding that employees should anticipate additional changes.Only business-critical travel outside the US will be permitted and must be pre-approved by a division head, the memo said. Domestic travel within the US is not restricted, but the New York-based firm said it will continue to closely monitor the situation. The bank also said additional working-from-home requirements might be imposed in the coming days, and advised employees should consider meeting through video conferencing methods like iConf and Skype wherever possible. People who have visited mainland China, Iran, Italy, Japan, or South Korea in the past two weeks — or are living with or partners with someone who has been in those countries — are not permitted in Morgan Stanley buildings or to attend events hosted by the firm, the memo said.A spokesperson for Morgan Stanley declined to comment beyond the contents of the memo. 


Morgan Stanley, which reported some 60,400 employees around the world as of Dec. 31, has also asked people attending its technology, media, and telecommunications conference in San Francisco this week to self-report whether they may have been exposed to the coronavirus, Reuters first reported.Other financial services firms and global businesses have implemented new policies and travel restrictions as the coronavirus has spread outside of China. Goldman Sachs told staff that all non-essential business travel should be postponed, Reuters reported on Monday. Morgan Stanley also said it was expanding its inventory of hand sanitizer and "protective masks." The coronavirus has infected nearly 90,000 people, and has killed more than 3,000, the New York Times reported on Monday. The virus has spread into the US and killed two Americans, the Times reported.Financial markets reeled last week amid the virus' spread, and the S&P 500 recorded its worst week since the 2007-2009 financial crisis amid the outbreak. Analysts have warned the virus could hurt global economic growth.