The coronavirus outbreak that originated in China has killed 3,300 people worldwide and infected more than 97,000, according to recent totals.The virus, which causes a disease known as COVID-19, has spread to at least 86 other countries, while most cases are concentrated in China.As the outbreak spreads, robots are being used to disinfect, take temperatures, and even prepare food.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


In China, robots are being used to minimize the spread of COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, by taking on cleaning and food preparation jobs that are considered dangerous for humans. The worldwide death toll of the coronavirus disease that originated in Wuhan, China, is now more than 3,300, and the virus has infected more than 97,000 people. On January 30, the World Health Organization (WHO) officially declared it a global health emergency. The virus has disrupted travel worldwide, leading to flight cancellations, quarantines, and other breakdowns in movement.It's now on every continent except Antarctica, and the CDC has said that there are likely to be more US cases in the near future.Take a look at some of the clever ways robots are used across China to stop the spread of the coronavirus. 













In Wuhan, where the outbreak started, a robot spraying disinfectant moves through a residential area of the city.















Volunteers refill the robot with disinfectant on March 3.











 






Workers on scooters control the robot.















A patrol robot in a Shenyang, China, hospital checks temperatures and disinfects people and spaces.











 






These robots are used at hospitals to cut down on demands on medical staff.















Hangzhou, China, is yet another city using robots to disinfect large areas.











 






They're controlled via remote control, and can be seen getting refilled here.















Hangzhou's disinfecting robots look notably different from those in Wuhan and Shenyang, almost resembling tanks.











 






Another robot disinfectant in Luoyang is remote-controlled and able to climb stairs.















This hand sanitizer-dispensing robot was photographed in Shanghai on March 4.











 






Robots are being used for more than just disinfecting areas with coronavirus. A hospital in Ezhou has incorporated a robot chef into its kitchen.















The robot can reportedly produce 100 pots of rice per hour.











 






The robot operates without human supervision, which minimizes the number of people in the hospital exposed to the virus.















Sharing food presents an opportunity to spread the virus, so some cities have been incorporating robots in food service and preparation.











 






This robot delivered food to diners in Hangzhou.











 

 




 Featured Digital Health Articles:
 - Telehealth Industry: Benefits, Services & Examples
 - Value-Based Care Model: Pay-for-Performance Healthcare
 - Senior Care & Assisted Living Market Trends
 - Smart Medical Devices: Wearable Tech in Healthcare
 - AI in Healthcare
 - Remote Patient Monitoring Industry: Devices & Market Trends