So, for now, South by Southwest is still officially happening.  You'd be forgiven for thinking otherwise as each new day seemingly brings with it news of yet another major company dropping out of the annual tech and music festival in Austin, Texas. At issue is the coronavirus, and its possible spread among attendees at a large event like SXSW.  As of the time of this writing, SXSW organizers are insisting that the show will go on.  "SXSW is working closely on a daily basis with local, state, and federal agencies to plan for a safe event," the organization noted in a March 2 statement. "As a result of this dialogue and the recommendations of Austin Public Health, the 2020 event is proceeding with safety as a top priority." Just because the event is proceeding doesn't mean it's going to be regularly scheduled programming, though. Here, for all your planning needs, is a (semi-regularly) updated list of all the companies that have pulled out of SXSW: The company behind the viral video app TikTok confirmed Tuesday, March 3, that it is canceling its participation in SXSW.  "TikTok has decided not to participate in SXSW this year," a spokesperson confirmed to AdAge. "While we think the risk is relatively low, we are erring on the side of caution as we prioritize safety for our team, creators, partners, artists and brands. We are looking at a variety of alternative ways to bring parts of the previously scheduled experience to audiences in creative new forms." Yes, the site you're currently reading. Mashable's SXSW participation is known for (among other things) the Mashable House — it had planned to run one at SXSW this year — but announced Tuesday it will no longer do so.  "Due to concerns regarding the coronavirus, we've decided to cancel the Mashable House and MashBash at SXSW," the company wrote on Twitter. "This was a really tough call, but safety is our top priority." Due to concerns regarding the coronavirus, we’ve decided to cancel the Mashable House and MashBash at SXSW. This was a really tough call, but safety is our top priority. — Mashable (@mashable) March 3, 2020 Intel announced Tuesday it has decided to bail on the annual festival.   "After careful consideration, we have withdrawn from on-site activities at this year’s SXSW," an Intel spokesperson confirmed to AdAge. "We are grateful to SXSW for their understanding and look forward to attending and supporting future events." Yup, Facebook is also out. The company confirmed the decision Monday via email to the Austin American-Statesman. "Due to concerns related to coronavirus, our company and employees will not be participating in SXSW this year," a Facebook spokesperson wrote.  Twitter confirmed on Monday to The Verge that it is canceling its planned Twitter House. What's more, Jack Dorsey, CEO of Twitter and Square, pulled out of his planned keynote. Video-streaming site Vevo got in on the cancelation game, confirming to AdAge on Monday that it, too, will not be attending the festival after all.   "After careful consideration of all known and unknowns regarding the coronavirus," a Vevo spokesman wrote, "Vevo has decided to cancel its annual SXSW event this year. We'd like to thank our partners for their support and understanding. We hope to see you next year." And there's goes Amazon. Entertainment Weekly reported Wednesday morning that Amazon Studios has pulled out of SXSW due to coronavirus concerns. The company had reportedly planned to screen two upcoming Amazon Prime series.  The Latinx House, "a gathering place for people who appreciate and support the Latinx community and who celebrate Latinx excellence in film and entertainment," announced today it is pulling out of SXSW due to coronavirus concerns.  "With the collective health and safety of the Latinx community and our allies in mind, it is with a heavy heart that we have decided to cancel our events at SXSW this year due to COVID-19," wrote the organization on Twitter.  We look forward to continue bringing the Latinx community and our allies together in the future. For more information on how you can get involved, please go to our website at https://t.co/M0VUc4dF45. pic.twitter.com/O1QBgCrZRz — The Latinx House (@thelatinxhouse) March 4, 2020 And now Apple is out. According to Variety, Apple has joined the long line of tech companies bailing on SXSW due to coronavirus concerns. It seems we'll have to wait a little longer to get a sneak peek at the Apple TV Plus originals the company planned to show off at the festival.  Netflix is out of SXSW now too. Variety reports the entertainment company is cancelling five film screenings: documentaries A Secret Love, L.A. Originals, Mucho Mucho Amor, and Have a Good Trip: Adventures in Psychedelics, and feature film Uncorked. Netflix is also cancelling a panel for upcoming sitcom #blackexcellence, which would have featured Kenya Barris and Rashida Jones. There's goes HBO. CNET reports Thursday that the maker of hit shows like Westworld and Game of Thrones is pulling out of SXSW. WarnerMedia, HBO's parent company, reportedly "decided it's best not to move forward with activations at SXSW."  UPDATE: March 4, 2020, 9:22 a.m. PST: This story has been updated to include Amazon Studios decision to not attend SXSW. UPDATE: March 4, 2020, 3:43 p.m. PST: The story has been updated to include The Latinx House cancelation.  UPDATE: March 4, 2020, 5:45 p.m. PST: The story has been updated to include Apple's decision to pull out of SXSW. UPDATE: March 5, 2020, 2:12 p.m. AEDT: The story has been updated to include Netflix's decision not to attend SXSW. UPDATE: March 5, 2020, 2:20 p.m. PST: This story has been updated to note HBO's withdraw from SXSW.