Shared Destiny. Shared Responsibility. Dr. Nancy Messonnier elaborated on how the disease may be spreading in the U.S. Story at a glance In a press briefing Tuesday afternoon, Dr. Nancy Messonnier, the director of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, confirmed her initial prediction that there will be more coronavirus cases in the U.S., and likely from a mix of contact and community spread, as well as potentially from unknown sources. “What is happening now in the U.S. may be the beginning of what is happening abroad,” she told reporters via a telephone call.  Messonnier took time to confirm the current total U.S. case count of 60 patients infected with the COVID-19 coronavirus. She said that these data represent both confirmed and presumptive cases recorded by the CDC, including the likely outbreak occurring in a Washington state nursing home, as well as new cases found in Rhode Island, Florida, Georgia, New Hampshire and New York, among other states.   Out of all of the 60 cases confirmed, Messonnier stated that 22 cases are travel related, 27 are currently under CDC investigation and the remaining 11 are likely from person-to-person contact. While the CDC will update its tally of confirmed cases in the U.S. at noon on a daily basis, Messonnier said anytime after 5 p.m., EST, is when state counts can become more accurate. Any new cases discovered at that time will be included in the official tally the following day.  Messonnier said the CDC and partner health care institutions are still taking aggressive containment measures.  With cases spanning both coasts, Messonnier confirmed that those at greatest risk are among “those in close contact [with COVID-19 patients], including family members and health care workers.”  Data coming from China indicates that there is a ratio of one serious case of COVID-19 to 16 more preventive cases. Messonnier further said that individuals with underlying or preexisting conditions, such as diabetes or lung diseases, are approximately twice as likely to develop a severe case of COVID-19.  More test kits are expected to ship out to California in particular, according to Messonnier. She said the CDC is confident that the updated tests won’t be contaminated or inaccurate. She also confirmed that other test kits, likely developed in state labs, will be available pending FDA approval.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  America is changing fast! Sign up for our newsletter to stay informed and engaged.