Top Trump administration officials are shifting their message on the coronavirus outbreak, emphasizing efforts to contain, rather than prevent, the disease. The tone at a Monday afternoon White House briefing with Vice President Mike Pence and members of Trump's coronavirus task force marked a notable change from earlier efforts to tamp down fear of community spread of the disease — a tacit acknowledgment of a surge in new cases over the past two days and six reported deaths. There are currently 43 confirmed cases in the U.S., including 26 involving people who had no known exposure to the virus. “Now we’re focused on mitigation of the spread, as well as the treatment of the people affected,” Pence said. The comments came shortly after Washington state officials announced four additional deaths. HHS Secretary Alex Azar stressed the immediate risk to the American public remains low, but added: “The degree of risk has the potential to change quickly.” He said officials expect more confirmed cases as the U.S.’s testing capacity is expected to dramatically ramp up this week. FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn said there could be up to 1 million tests performed this week, though experts have cautioned that is unlikely and that the CDC is still playing catch up. The CDC has faced scrutiny in recent days regarding problems with the initial diagnostic test, which has delayed the ability to identify suspected patients, as well as detect community spread. The agency on Monday removed a tally of how many people have been tested for coronavirus from its website but didn't respond to requests for comment on the change. The shift in emphasis to containing the virus came after Trump met with a group of pharmaceutical executives to discuss the development of therapies and potential vaccines. Pence said therapeutics to treat the virus could be available as early as this summer, while a vaccine may not be ready until next year. Trump and Pence plan to visit the National Institutes of Health to observe some of the work on Tuesday. Pence is also due to discuss emergency funding for the response efforts with Republican and Democratic senators on Tuesday. Lawmakers are still negotiating a package that could include up to $8 billion in funding. The Trump administration initially proposed a $2.5 billion package that included $1.25 billion in new spending. Pence was joined by Ambassador Deborah Birx, whom he appointed to lead the coronavirus response. He also added three new officials to the task force: VA Secretary Robert Wilkie, CMS Administrator Seema Verma and Surgeon General Jerome Adams. Azar still chairs the task force but reports to Pence and Birx.