Dr. Dena Grayson issued a warning on Twitter that the United States could be facing a "massive surge" in coronavirus cases.COVID-19 will impact "every single state, very likely and very very soon," she predicted. In the US, more than 90 people have tested positive for coronavirus and two people have died, as of Monday.Although the situation is likely to worsen, this is "not the zombie apocalpyse," Grayson said. Instead of panicking, people can take precautionary measures to protect themselves and others.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


A doctor on Sunday made a grave prediction about coronavirus in the United States, but, with it, offered some good news.Dr. Dena Grayson wrote on Twitter that, after spending years trying to develop a medical treatment for Ebola, she is "VERY concerned" about COVID-19 evolving into a pandemic.According to Grayson, US citizens should brace for a "massive surge" in coronavirus cases in the next roughly three weeks, Newsweek first reported."Unfortunately, I predict that it won't be long before nearly every state joins the #coronavirus 'party' that no one wants to attend," she wrote on Twitter.So far, COVID-19 has infected 89,000-plus people and killed more than 3,000. After originating in Wuhan, China, it has affected every region and province on the mainland, which continues to be the worst-hit nation


—Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) March 2, 2020—Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) March 2, 2020Coronavirus cases continue to balloonSince December, COVID-19 has spread to nearly 70 other countries. And in the United States, over 90 people have tested positive for coronavirus and two people have died, as of Monday.According to a blog post by Harvard University, flu transmits faster and easier in the winter because viruses are "happier in cold, dry weather and thus better able to invade our bodies."This applies to the coronavirus, and Grayson said she is anticipating a "seasonal ebb-and-flow of coronavirus will lead to a reduction of cases over the summer." Unless a vaccine becomes available quickly, she wrote, "I predict an even larger 2nd wave next Fall/Winter." Countries in the southern hemisphere, however, are likely to see a surge sooner because their seasons are reversed.However, Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said last week that officials will likely need between 12 and 18 months to develop a vaccine that can treat COVID-19 because of the rounds of animal and human testing that have yet to occur.







No longer a 'question of if'Grayson, who unsuccessfully pursued the Democratic nomination for Florida's 9th congressional district in 2016, shared a video on Twitter, offering people information on COVID-19 and steps they can take to better protect themselves.


"This [COVID-19] is going to go to every single state, very likely and very very soon," she said. "So we should expect a lot more cases over the coming weeks."We've got a pretty rocky four to six weeks coming. I want folks to be prepared for that."—Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) March 2, 2020 Fauci echoed Grayson's sentiment."When you start to see sustained transmission in other countries throughout the world, it's inevitable that it will come to the United States," he told NBC News.Dr. Nancy Messonnier, the head of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, also agreed.


"Ultimately we expect we will see community spread in the United States. It's not a question of if this will happen, but when this will happen, and how many people in this country will have severe illnesses," she said.







This is 'not the end of the world'Even so, Grayson doesn't believe there's need to panic and instead encouraged people to take a "collective deep breath.""This is again not the zombie apocalypse, it's not the end of the world," she said. "It's bad and, unfortunately, it's going to get worse" but people can "prepare and be ready for what's next."Grayson urged people to think of 2020 as "a really, really, really, really, bad flu year," adding, "For most folks, this virus is a little bit more dangerous than the typical seasonal flu but not a ton."People who live in areas where coronavirus cases are beginning to emerge should estimate the outbreak's start date by going about two to three weeks into the past, Grayson suggested. The virus has an incubation period of up to 14 days and it can take a while for people to present symptoms that will prompt a trip to the doctor. 


Those who are older are more susceptible to the coronavirus as are people who already deal with diabetes, and other heart and lung conditions, Grayson said.







Precautions include washing your hands with warm water and soap for about 20 seconds when you return home and also carrying wet wipes. Grayson also suggested not shaking hands or touching things in public spaces, if it's not needed. If someone needs to cough or sneeze, she encouraged people to use a tissue and throw it away instantly. If, despite all these steps, people worry that they may have contracted COVID-19, Grayson asked them to call their doctor's clinic or local hospital for protocol that they might suggest.Read more:A CDC lab is said to be under investigation after contamination fears, another sign the US botched its rollout of coronavirus testing kitsA member of the inner circle of Iran's Supreme Leader died of the coronavirus, as the country records more deaths than anywhere outside ChinaThe Trump administration barred a top US disease expert from speaking freely to the public after he warned the coronavirus might be impossible to containThe US just reported its 2nd coronavirus death — another patient in Washington state