Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) on Tuesday confirmed a second case of coronavirus in New York state. The governor said during a press conference that the patient is a man in his 50s who lives in Westchester County and works as an attorney in Manhattan.  WATCH NOW: New York Gov. Cuomo holds press conference on the coronavirus outbreak after second case was confirmed in New York https://t.co/6uReaScHtd pic.twitter.com/rDQkEzSlCJ  The patient, who is now hospitalized, had no known connection to the virus or central locations where the virus has spread, indicating it could be spreading to other communities. The individual had traveled on a flight to Miami, but officials said that wasn't during his infectious period. One of the patient's children attends the Salanter Akiba Riverdale (SAR) Academy in the Bronx. The school decided to close for the day on Tuesday, Cuomo said. Cuomo said the second case was not a "cause for anxiety," as experts expected the disease to surface in multiple areas of the state and expected that it would most likely spread. "I'm telling you it is inevitable but that this will continue to spread," he said, adding that 80 percent of people who contract the virus will "self-resolve." A state lab in Albany confirmed the case overnight, according to The New York Times. The governor also said two families from Buffalo who recently traveled to areas in Italy that are experiencing outbreaks are also being tested for the virus and are isolated. “We don’t see any direct connection,” Cuomo said, according to the Times. Cuomo announced the first identified case of coronavirus in the state Sunday, saying the victim is a health care worker who was recently visiting Iran, which has been struck with the second-highest number of deaths from the virus outside of China, behind Italy. The coronavirus, which was identified in China in late December, has spread globally to infect more than 91,000 people worldwide and cause more than 3,100 deaths.  In the U.S., at least 105 cases have been identified, with at least six deaths, all of which were in Washington state, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. --Updated at 4:37 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.