CNBC's Jim Cramer broke down why the stock market managed to rebound after a volatile week of trading on Wall Street. The "Mad Money" host sat down with Beyond Meat CEO Ethan Brown to get a read on the plant-based meat company's strategies to open its first international production facilities and penetrate the China market. Later in the show, Cramer said it's time for internet entrepreneur Jack Dorsey to relinquish his chief executive title at Twitter or Square. The stock market managed to surge in the first trading day coming off the worst week on Wall Street in over a decade because of coronavirus data that was not as bad as feared by the market, CNBC's said Monday. "I think the facts, and the concomitant reversal of [interest] rates from the ridiculous lows that they allowed, that's what allowed the market to roar today," the "Mad Money" host said, pointing to an article co-authored by Dr. Tony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, in The New England Journal of Medicine on Friday. head Ethan Brown reaffirmed the company's mission to expand its manufacturing capabilities to Asia, despite potential headwinds associated with the novel coronavirus outbreak that has disturbed global commerce. "Right now is a moment in time for us. It's an opportunity for hyper growth, so I'm looking very seriously to Asia," the chief executive and president said in a sit-down interview with Cramer. "I made a commitment that we're going to be producing in Asia by the end of this year. We'll do that regardless of, I think, of this health epidemic occurring right now." Cramer came out in favor of growing interest to replace Jack Dorsey at the helm of , the popular social media platform he helped found more than a decade ago. "I think Twitter's a buy, whether Jack Dorsey's running it or not," the host said. "But at this point, I think the best thing he could do for his shareholders is just retire as CEO of Twitter and focus on running  full time — or vice versa." In Cramer's lightning round, the "Mad Money" host gave his thoughts on callers' favorite stock picks of the day in rapid speed. : "I think it's a fantastic product and the company continues to do great. Docusign. By the way: there's a good example of something that can be a stay-at-home stock." : "The problem is that any place that is a gathering place, even as good as Penn National Gaming, which does not have China [exposure] ... is going to be suspect. Gathering, no. At home, yes. But this one has Barstool and it will only be a matter of time before it comes back." Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com