Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-CortezAlexandria Ocasio-CortezOcasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-N.Y.) hailed Jessica Cisneros after Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) fended off her primary challenge from the left Tuesday evening. “I am so incredibly proud of Jessica Cisneros. At 26 years old, she ran for office for the first time to offer TX28 new leadership that fights for workers, gender rights,& a climate agenda,” Ocasio-Cortez tweeted Wednesday. “She stood up to Koch brother money & incumbency, & she came closer than anyone imagined.”  I am so incredibly proud of Jessica Cisneros.At 26 years old, she ran for office for the first time to offer TX28 new leadership that fights for workers, gender rights,& a climate agenda.She stood up to Koch brother money & incumbency, & she came closer than anyone imagined. https://t.co/3NiBVMfDrf  Cuellar, a seven-term member of the conservative Blue Dog coalition, defeated Cisneros by about 3.5 points. Cisneros received endorsements from Ocasio-Cortez, Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) and Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.), whereas House Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Calif.) and Majority Leader Steny HoyerSteny Hamilton HoyerHouse passes .3 billion measure to fight coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Md.) backed Cuellar, who also benefited from a major cash advantage. Ocasio-Cortez also congratulated Georgette Gomez, who advanced to the November ballot for California’s 53rd district under the state’s “jungle primary” system. Gomez will face fellow Democrat and former Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE aide Sara Jacobs to succeed retiring Rep. Susan DavisSusan Carol DavisOcasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' The 14 other key races to watch on Super Tuesday Overnight Defense — Presented by Boeing — Pence says Turkey agrees to ceasefire | Senators vow to move forward with Turkey sanctions | Mulvaney walks back comments tying Ukraine aid to 2016 probe MORE (D). “@SDGeorgette is a progressive history-maker who fought Trump’s wall right in San Diego, and would be the first Queer Latina in Congress,” Ocasio-Cortez added.  Also incredibly proud of Georgette Gomez, who cleared the way in #CA53 and is now on the ballot for November.@SDGeorgette is a progressive history-maker who fought Trump’s wall right in San Diego, and would be the first Queer Latina in Congress. ️‍ https://t.co/AlkMZWT7JY  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.