Kim Kardashian WestKimberly (Kim) Noel Kardashian WestThe Hill's 12:30 Report: Super Tuesday fallout Kim Kardashian West making another visit to White House Trump pardons ex-49ers owner MORE said Wednesday that she will make a return trip to the White House to talk criminal justice reform with President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE. The reality TV star tweeted that she will join Trump on Wednesday with Alice Marie Johnson and three women whose prison sentences he commuted. The 39-year-old entrepreneur and criminal justice reform advocate — who has said she's studying to be a lawyer — said Crystal Munoz, Judith Negron and Tynice Nichole Hall would attend the White House meeting. Today Alice, Crystal, Judith, Tynice and I, along with the @cut_50 team will be at the White House bringing light to these women and discuss more change that our justice system desperately needs! Trump commuted the three women's sentences last month. President Trump commuted the sentences of three really deserving women. I didn’t hear much about it in the news so I wanted to share with you their stores! I have the pleasure of spending the day with these women today along with @AliceMarieFree who helped to pick these women White House press secretary Stephanie GrishamStephanie GrishamTrump to award Medal of Freedom to retired Gen. Jack Keane Kim Kardashian West making another visit to White House Trump donates quarterly salary to HHS for coronavirus efforts MORE retweeted Kardashian West's message. The White House didn't return a request for comment. The face-to-face between the president and the tabloid fixture would be a reunion of sorts. Kardashian West made headlines in 2018 when she met with Trump in the Oval Office to discuss prison reform and sentencing. Trump tweeted a photo at the time of Kardashian West standing beside him at the Resolute Desk. Great meeting with @KimKardashian today, talked about prison reform and sentencing. pic.twitter.com/uOy4UJ41JF Days after the 2018 meeting, Trump granted clemency for Johnson, a 62-year-old great-grandmother who was serving a life sentence on nonviolent drug and money laundering charges. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.