To view past editions of The Hill's 12:30 Report, click here: http://bit.ly/1M1mIfw To receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox, please sign up here: http://bit.ly/1Tt4hqN --> A midday take on what's happening in politics and how to have a sense of humor about it.* *Ha. Haha. Hahah. Sniff. Haha. Sniff. Ha--breaks down crying hysterically.   The Hill's 12:30 Report: Democrats head into crucial Super Tuesday | What to watch | Inside Buttigieg's decision to drop out | Trump holding NC rally tonight | US sees second coronavirus death | Trump urges drug executives to speed up vaccine work | Pence to meet task force today | House eyes vote on emergency funding this week | Supreme Court to hear ObamaCare appeal | 'Judge Judy' ending after 25 seasons | Next Bachelorette unveiled    HAPPENING TUESDAY The Tuesday to end all Tuesdays. The Tuesday of them all. Super Tuesday, if you will.:  Fourteen states and one U.S. territory are voting tomorrow to choose between the remaining Democratic presidential candidates. How many delegates are up for grabs: 1,357 How many delegates needed to win the Democratic president nomination: 1,991 delegates The magic voting number: 15 percent, the minimum threshold for candidates to receive delegates. https://nyti.ms/2IaNDhh Super Tuesday delegates up for grabs in each state: California: 415 delegates Texas: 228 delegates North Carolina: 110 delegates Virginia: 99 delegates Massachusetts: 91 delegates Minnesota: 75 delegates Colorado: 67 delegates Tennessee: 64 delegates Alabama: 52 delegates Oklahoma: 37 delegates Arkansas: 31 delegates Utah: 29 delegates Maine: 24 delegates Vermont: 16 delegates Democrats abroad: 13 delegates American Samoa: 6 delegates https://nyti.ms/2TfZReI A brief primer on what to watch in each state: http://bit.ly/2TgpbRM   It's Monday -- welcome back! I'm Cate Martel with a quick recap of the morning and what's coming up. Send comments, story ideas and events for our radar to cmartel@thehill.com -- and follow along on Twitter @CateMartel and Facebook. Did someone forward this to you? Want your own copy? Sign up here to receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox daily: http://bit.ly/2kjMNnn   THE LATEST WITH CORONAVIRUS A second coronavirus death in the U.S.: Via The New York Times, a second person in the Seattle area has died of the coronavirus. https://nyti.ms/3akaTVV The victim: A man in his 70s with underlying health conditions.  Three other cases in the county: "They include a woman in her 80s, a woman in her 90s and a man in his 70s. All were in critical condition with underlying health issues. All four new cases were residents of a nursing facility in Kirkland where two other people -- a resident and a worker -- had previously tested positive."  Confirmed cases in the U.S.:" "Twenty-three U.S. cases were announced on Saturday and Sunday ...  the cases identified over the weekend were in Washington, California, Illinois, Rhode Island, New York, Florida and Oregon, and included a mix of people who had traveled to high-risk countries and those who were believed to have contracted the disease domestically."  Everything we know: https://nyti.ms/3akaTVV Op-ed from Dr. Tom Frieden, former director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: http://bit.ly/2PDxiFM   WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH THE STOCK MARKET: Via The Wall Street Journal's Joe Wallace and Chong Koh Ping, "U.S. stocks rose and government bond yields fell Monday as investors bet central banks will take steps to stabilize markets and shield growth from the economic impact of the coronavirus." https://on.wsj.com/3ciOOch   Trump is urging pharmaceutical companies to ramp up vaccine efforts: President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE said he is urging pharmaceutical executives to accelerate efforts to create a vaccine for the coronavirus. http://bit.ly/2uM3yzr Trump told reporters: We’ve asked them to accelerate whatever they’re doing in terms of a vaccine.” Happening at 3 p.m.: Pharmaceutical executives will be meeting with President Trump and Vice President Pence this afternoon at the White House.   WHAT ABOUT HOLDING CAMPAIGN RALLIES AROUND THE COUNTRY AMID CORONAVIRUS?:  “I think it’s very safe,” Trump told reporters when asked if campaign rallies are safe to hold amid the outbreak. http://bit.ly/2TjeJsV On tonight’s North Carolina campaign rally: "Well this was set up a long time ago and others are. You could ask that to the Democrats because they’re having a lot of rallies.”    Congress is working on emergency coronavirus funding: Via The Hill's Jordain Carney and Juliegrace Brufke, "Lawmakers are racing to clinch a deal on emergency funding to combat the coronavirus as more cases, and the first deaths within the United States, took place over the weekend. http://bit.ly/2IcMR37 What to expect: "The administration requested $2.5 billion in funding, half of which would have been new funding. The rest would have come from existing health programs, including $535 million from fighting Ebola. They're likely to get double or triple that request. A source familiar with the talks confirmed to The Hill that negotiators are looking at providing between $6 billion and $8 billion."    ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL For Pete's sake: Former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE abruptly dropped out of the presidential race yesterday after placing fourth in Saturday's South Carolina primary. http://bit.ly/3cr9Fdc   'INSIDE THE SUDDEN END OF PETE BUTTIGIEG'S CAMPAIGN': Via Politico's Elena Schneider, "Soon after midnight on Sunday morning, Pete Buttigieg convened his senior advisers on a conference call. Sitting in a car after flying to Georgia from his last rally in Raleigh, N.C., Buttigieg told them the campaign was over." What happened: https://politi.co/3alnTdX   INTERESTING TAKE ON PETE BUTTIGIEG'S DECISION TO DROP OUT: The New York Times's Frank Bruni writes, "Mayor Pete Flew Sky High: The youngest of the Democratic candidates did the grown-up thing and dropped out." His full op-ed: https://nyti.ms/2x3cbX6   For context:  Biden Bloomberg Gabbard Klobuchar Sanders Warren❌Buttigieg❌Steyer❌Patrick❌Yang❌Bennet❌Delaney❌Booker❌Williamson❌Castro❌Harris❌Bullock❌Sestak❌Messam❌O'Rourke❌Ryan❌de Blasio❌Gillibrand❌Moulton❌Inslee❌Hickenlooper❌Swalwell    WOW, THINK ABOUT THIS: "Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE can now run as the youngest male candidate left in the field." (Via The Daily Beast's Sam Stein) http://bit.ly/2vzqpym    IN THE SUPREME COURT This morning -- We'll hear it: Via The Hill's Peter Sullivan and John Kruzel, the Supreme Court agreed to hear an ObamaCare appeal. http://bit.ly/3ailNeT What to know about the case: "The case threatens to blow a major hole in the health care system and overturn coverage for roughly 20 million people if the Supreme Court overturns ObamaCare. But legal experts in both parties say the challengers' legal arguments are weak and view it as unlikely that the high court will strike down the law."  Timing: The case will be heard in the Supreme Court's next term, starting in October. That means a decision isn't expected until after the 2020 presidential election, and the issue of health care could become an even bigger issue in the race.     IN OTHER NEWS Judy out: Via Variety's Michael Schneider, "Judge Judy" is ending her show after 25 years on air. http://bit.ly/32Id8j8 What next for Judy Sheindlin: She plans to start a new show, 'Judy Justice.' We don't know much about the new show: "Sheindlin wouldn't reveal details about 'Judy Justice,' including where might end up, if it is another syndicated strip show, or even if the format will be the same as 'Judge Judy.'"   NOTABLE TWEETS In Washington, D.C.:  Checking in on the germ-killing wipes section at the supermarket. pic.twitter.com/gjDS2ebF3K    ON TAP The House is in. The Senate meets this afternoon. President Trump and Vice President Pence are in Washington, D.C. Trump is campaigning in Charlotte, N.C., tonight. 10:30 a.m. EST: President Trump met with the president of Colombia. 11:45 a.m. EST: President Trump received an intelligence briefing. Noon: Vice President Pence holds a conference call with governors to discuss the coronavirus. Noon: The House meets. 12:30 p.m. EST: President Trump has lunch with Vice President Pence. 3 p.m. EST: President Trump, Vice President Pence and members of the Coronavirus Task Force meet with pharmaceutical executives. 3 p.m. EST: The Senate meets.  4 p.m. EST: Vice President Pence leads a White House Coronavirus Task Force meeting in the Situation Room of the White House. 4:10 p.m. EST: President Trump leaves for Charlotte, N.C. 5:30 p.m. EST: The Senate votes. The Senate's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/3aqPg6B 6:30 p.m. EST: Votes in the House. The House's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/2wotCRK 10:30 p.m. EST: President Trump gets back to the White House.    WHAT TO WATCH 10:25 a.m. EST: Vice President Pence spoke at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) policy conference in Washington, D.C. Livestream: http://bit.ly/2vmLso3 5 p.m. EST: Vice President Pence and Ambassador Deborah Birx hold a press conference on the coronavirus. Livestream: https://cs.pn/32J7ZYi 7 p.m. EST: President Trump holds a campaign rally in Charlotte, N.C. Livestream: https://cs.pn/38jEfSN    NOW FOR THE FUN STUFF... Today is National Banana Cream Pie Day.   The next Bachelorette has been announced: ABC News announced this morning that Clare Crawley is officially the next Bachelorette. http://bit.ly/32FGWx2 What to know about Crawley: Via Cosmopolitan, "She's a hairstylist, finished 2nd on Juan Pablo's season, was recently on Bachelor Winter Games, and has also been on TWO seasons of Bachelor in Paradise."    And because you made it this far, here's a dog who is really hoping you'll call out of work today: http://bit.ly/3coHT1i View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.