The coronavirus outbreak that originated in Wuhan, China, has infected over 92,000 people and killed more than 3,100.While 87% of the cases have been reported in China, nine people in the US have died because of COVID-19.We spoke to six experts for tips and tricks people can use to stay safe while taking public transportation.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Several public transportation agencies across the country are now taking steps to mitigate the spread of the novel coronavirus and subdue public fears of catching it.For example, New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced that its trains, cars, and buses will be sanitized every 72 hours, and frequently touched surfaces in stations will be disinfected daily. San Francisco's Bay Area Rapid Transit system will also be undergoing a similar procedure by disinfecting commonly used surfaces in its stations and wiping down handrails and stanchions at multiple stops.There are currently two reported cases of coronavirus in New York, and San Francisco's mayor has already declared a state of emergency due to the spread of COVID-19."Be vigilant, but not anxious," infectious disease specialist Avisheh Forouzesh who owns Advanced Infectious Disease Medical in New Jersey, told Business Insider in an interview. "The key is not to panic because we can't live in a bubble.""I don't think people should entirely avoid public transportation," Forouzesh continued.


However, there are still different tips and tricks people can take to ensure that they don't put themselves at any potential risk while taking public transit. For example, emerging and reemerging viral diseases expert Thomas Ksiazek at the University of Texas Medical Branch Health told Business Insider that hand sanitation is one of the most important ways to stay safe.Keep scrolling to see what experts said, including advice from professor of infectious diseases and medicine at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Bernard Camins and professor of global health and epidemiology at George Mason University Amira Roess.













Don't touch your phone while you're taking public transportation.










While one expert, Carol Shoshkes Reiss, senior scholar at Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security Amesh Adalja, claims it should be okay to use your phone on transit unless someone coughs directly onto it, several experts advise against using personal mobile devices while riding public transit.While this may be a hard habit to curtail, Adalja advises changing certain behaviors and patterns to remind yourself to not touch your phone. For example, put your phone in a place that it's not normally in, such as a different part of your bag or a different pocket. That way, when you reach for your phone and it's not in its usual place, you are reminded of why you put it elsewhere.To be extra cautious, clean your phone screen with an antibacterial wipe, and wash your hands with soap and water after touching your phone.

 






Carry hand sanitizer and use it the moment you leave the bus, train, or subway.










Almost every expert suggests carrying hand sanitizer to use after exiting any form of public transportation."If you don't have access to water or soap right away, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer," Forouzesh said. "That's one thing that's easy and everyone can do."

 






Don't touch your face.










Don't touch your face, whether you're on or off public transit. The CDC recommends avoiding touching your eyes, nose, and mouth, specifically.

 






If someone is coughing or sneezing, try to move away from them.










If someone is coughing or sneezing on the train or subway, you should either move to the other end of the railcar, or exit at the next stop and continue your commute in a different section. If you're on a bus or a crowded train and can't physically step away, face your back towards the person coughing."Don't be downwind of the cough," Reiss advised.

 






Wash your hands the moment you have access to soap and water.










Almost every expert reached by Business Insider and the CDC recommends that people wash their hands with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds after leaving public transit.Reiss also recommended using a moisturizer to prevent your hands from drying due to constant washing.

 






Don't wear a face mask unless you're sick.










"There is no evidence that wearing a mask by the general public is preventative against infection," Adlja said. "However, there is evidence that people panic buying a mask may cause problems with supplies necessary for hospitals." Wearing a mask can sometimes cause more harm than good because people are more likely to touch their face while trying to adjust or touch their mask, according to Forouzesh.

 






Limit contact with train and bus poles.










If that's not possible, disinfect your hands shortly after leaving public transit, and make sure to not touch your nose, eyes, and mouth after touching the poles or seats.If you decide to use a napkin or tissue to hold onto the poles and railings, discard the tissue in an enclosed trash bin afterward.





If it's possible, try to leave work a bit earlier or later to avoid packed public transit during rush hour.










Commuting on a packed train during rush hour is the antithesis of social distancing, which Ksiazek claims has been one of the most effective ways of curtailing the spread and transmission of the coronavirus in Wuhan, China where COVID-19 first originated.

 






Don't eat or drink while on public transit.










Forouzesh recommends not eating or drinking while on public transit because there's a higher chance you will touch your face.

 






Sanitize your bag and keep it off of the floor and other surfaces.










If you're carrying a bag that may hit any surfaces on a train, bus, or subway, sanitize the bag. This includes the bottom of the bag, especially if it sits on the floor any time during your travels.Carrying around sanitizing and disinfecting wipes will make this process easier and more convenient. 

 






Avoid directly touching the turnstiles.










Turnstiles can be loaded with germs. If possible, push through with your hips instead of your hands.





Keep up with recommendations from the local department of health and CDC.










"Unfortunately there's a lot of erroneous information out there right because of the public panic," said Forouzesh. "But my best advice is to follow the CDC advice and don't steer away from that."