Sen. Ted Cruz announced on Sunday that he is entering into a 14-day self-quarantine after a brief interaction with a person who tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. In a statement on Sunday night, Cruz said he came to the decision "out of an abundance of caution" after a person who attended the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) last month tested positive for the disease.A number of White House officials — including President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence — and over 19,000 others attended the conservative yearly gathering. Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona also announced on Sunday that he would self-quarantine after he and members of his staff came into contact with the infected attendee. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Sen. Ted Cruz announced on Sunday that he is entering into a 14-day self-quarantine after a brief interaction with a person who tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. In a statement on Sunday night, Cruz said he came to the decision "out of an abundance of caution," after a person who attended the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) last month tested positive for the disease.The American Conservative Union (ACU) organized the event, where a number of White House officials over 19,000 others were in attendance. The ACU announced the new coronavirus case on Saturday. "Last night, I was informed that 10 days ago at CPAC I briefly interacted with an individual who is currently symptomatic and has tested positive for COVID-19. That interaction consisted of a brief conversation and a handshake," Cruz said in a statement. —Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz) March 8, 2020 "I'm not experiencing any symptoms, and I feel fine and healthy. Given that the interaction was 10 days ago, that the average incubation period is 5-6 days, that the interaction was for less than a minute, and that I have no current symptoms, the medical authorities have advised me that the odds of transmission from the other individual to me were extremely low," Cruz said. 


"Nevertheless, out of an abundance of caution, and because of how frequently I interact with my constituents as a part of my job and to give everyone peace of mind, I have decided to remain at my home in Texas this week, until a full 14 days have passed since the CPAC interaction," he added. President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and a number of other top cabinet members and White House officials were slated to speak at the annual gathering. According to the ACU, the attendee caught the virus prior to the conference and was later diagnosed at a New Jersey hospital. He has been placed under quarantine. —ACU (@ACUConservative) March 7, 2020According to the ACU, the attendee who tested positive for the virus did not interact with Trump or Pence, and did not attend events in the main hall. The group advised those who attended the conference to remain calm and listen to health professionals. Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona also announced on Sunday that he was going into self-quarantine after he and members of his staff came into contact with the infected attendee. —Rep. Paul Gosar, DDS (@RepGosar) March 9, 2020 "I have been informed that during the CPAC conference members of my staff and I came into contact with an individual who has since tested positive for, and is hospitalized for, COVID-19," Gosar said. "I was with the individual for an extended period of time, and we shook hands several times." 


"I am not currently experiencing any symptoms, nor is any member of my staff. However, in order to prevent any potential transmission, I will remain at my home in Arizona until the conclusion of the 14-day period following my interaction with this individual," he said. "Additionally, out of an abundance of caution, I am closing my office in Washington, D.C. for the week and my team will follow the previously approved Tele-commute plan," he added. As of Sunday, 21 people in the US have died from the coronavirus: 18 in Washington state, two in Florida, and one in California. The US has reported at least 547 coronavirus cases in total across 33 states. More than 3,800 people have died and more than 109,600 others have been infected, about 80% of whom are in China. Read more:The US government has completed fewer than 6,000 coronavirus tests as more states report new cases and deathsCalifornia, Washington, and New York have declared states of emergency to fight coronavirus – here's what it meansThe number of coronavirus cases outside China could jump tenfold every 19 days without 'strong intervention,' a study saysA medical expert is going viral for a passionate post warning that mass panic about the coronavirus could do more damage than the disease itself