The head of the World Health Organization (WHO) warned Tuesday that the group is in “unchartered territory” with the coronavirus outbreak as it spreads globally. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus posted the warning on Twitter, saying the organization has “never before seen a respiratory pathogen” like the coronavirus, or COVID-19. “Knowing & understanding an epidemic is the first step to defeating it,” he posted.  “We are in unchartered territory with #COVID19. We have never before seen a respiratory pathogen that is capable of community transmission, but which can also be contained with the right measures.”  Knowing & understanding an epidemic is the first step to defeating it.We are in unchartered territory with #COVID19. We have never before seen a respiratory pathogen that is capable of community transmission, but which can also be contained with the right measures.  Tedros added that containment of the virus is “feasible and must remain a top priority for all counties.” “Our message to all countries is: this is not one-way street. We can push this #coronavirus back,” he wrote. “Your actions now will determine the course of the #COVID19 outbreak in your country. There’s no choice but to act now.” The WHO leader’s comments came the day before New York state announced its second confirmed coronavirus case.  Worldwide, the coronavirus has infected more than 92,000 people and killed more than 3,100. In the U.S., 106 cases have been confirmed and six people have died, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.  The organization reported Monday that there are almost nine times more cases of the virus reported outside of China in the past 24 hours than within the country, where the outbreak originated. The WHO declared a public health emergency because of the outbreak on Jan. 30.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.