Melania TrumpMelania TrumpMelania Trump at State award ceremony: I'm 'proud of what this country continues to do for women' The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - A huge night for Joe Biden Melania Trump to honor recipients of International Women of Courage Awards MORE says as first lady, she's "proud of what this country continues to do for women." "I'm honored to represent a nation that not only recognizes women around the world who are making a difference internationally, but empowers and supports them in their endeavors so they can affect positive change for others," Trump said in remarks Wednesday at the International Women of Courage Awards at the State Department in Washington. "Throughout history, individuals who make the greatest impact and create the most change are all remembered for their acts of courage," she told the crowd.  The honor, which is described as the State Department's "only all-female award," recognizes women around the world "who have demonstrated exceptional courage and leadership." A total of 12 women were honored at Wednesday's ceremony. It was the fourth time that Trump, 49, participated in the annual event. "These women represent the strength of the female spirit," Trump said, before presenting the awards alongside Secretary of State Mike PompeoMichael (Mike) Richard PompeoCarson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging Melania Trump at State award ceremony: I'm 'proud of what this country continues to do for women' House Republicans sound the alarm on Taliban deal MORE. "In the United States, women are playing vital roles in society: they are mothers, wives, doctors, CEOs and elected officials, to name just a few," Trump said, touting what she described as a historically low unemployment rate for women across the country. The honorees, Trump said, "have pushed through gender-based stereotypes to serve the greater good." Trump, who launched her Be Best children's wellness campaign in 2018, said celebrating the accomplishments of women "tied nicely" into her initiative. "Without positive support, guidance, and well-being, which are just some of the attributes today's children need, they will not enter adulthood with the empathy and strength needed to help others as selflessly as these women today," she said. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.