U.S. labs will have enough materials on hand by the end of this week to perform "close to 1 million" coronavirus tests, FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn said at a White House briefing Monday evening. That estimate far exceeds the number of tests that several labs told POLITICO they will actually be able to run each day. Under ideal conditions, the nation's public health labs could run up to 10,000 tests per day by the end of the week, according to figures provided by the Association of Public Health Laboratories. An FDA spokesperson says that Hahn's 1 million estimate includes capacity that would be added through commercial tests that the agency is working with firms to bring to market by the end of the week. The announcement by Hahn comes amid intense scrutiny of the technical troubles that have slowed labs' adoption of the CDC diagnostic, with many public health officials and politicians blaming HHS Secretary Alex Azar for the delay. FDA issued regulations over the weekend that allow some high-complexity labs to create and use their own coronavirus tests before seeking an emergency use authorization from the agency — a move aimed at closing the testing gap. "With this new policy, we have heard from multiple companies and multiple academic centers, and we expect to have a substantial increase in the number of tests this week, next week and throughout the month," Hahn told reporters. But as of Sunday night, only 36 of roughly 100 public health laboratories had successfully verified a diagnostic developed by the CDC, and 10 more are in the process of doing so, according to APHL CEO Scott Becker. With CDC distributing more test kits to public health labs, Becker expects all of APHL's member labs to be in "various stages of verification" by the end of the week. At normal capacity, each lab can run 100 samples per day, with each patient requiring at least two samples to be tested, APHL estimates. Former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said Sunday on Face the Nation that the U.S. would be able to test 10,000 people a day by the end of the week if all 100 public health labs were up and running. As academic labs begin performing the tests, the country's total capacity could increase by an additional 10,000 tests per day within two weeks, Gottlieb added. Michael Mina, associate medical director of molecular diagnostics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, told POLITICO that Gottlieb’s estimate is accurate. Under FDA’s new guidelines, Mina’s hospital is creating its own in-house test, but he cautions it will take time for it to become operational. "We will have something up and running within a matter of two or three weeks, that's the hope," Mina said. "And this is an extraordinarily fast timeline for a laboratory even like ours."