Moderate Democrat Rep. Henry Cuellar (Texas) fended off a primary challenge from the left on Tuesday, defeating Jessica Cisneros, a 26-year-old lawyer who received strong backing from progressive groups.  Cuellar, a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, was first elected to represent Texas’s 28th District in 2004, having previously served as the Texas secretary of State and as a state representative.  With 100 percent of the precincts reporting, Cuellar was leading Cisneros by 51.8 percent to 48.2 percent. Cuellar had the cash advantage in the race and received endorsements from House Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Calif.) and Majority Leader Steny HoyerSteny Hamilton HoyerHouse passes .3 billion measure to fight coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Md.), in addition to groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Cisneros, who once interned in Cuellar’s office and works as an immigration attorney, was recruited by the progressive group Justice Democrats and received endorsements from Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.), Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.) and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-CortezAlexandria Ocasio-CortezOcasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-N.Y.). But despite the backing from high-profile progressives, she was not able to unseat the longtime congressman in the left-leaning district.  Cuellar is a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee.    View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.