Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions advanced to the Republican runoff in his bid to regain his old Senate seat in Alabama. Sessions will face off against former Auburn football coach Tommy Tuberville in the March 31 runoff after no Republican candidate earned more than 50 percent of the vote in Tuesday's primary, according to The Associated Press. Despite Sessions holding the Senate seat for 20 years, the GOP primary race remained close as results came in Tuesday night, with Tuberville and Sessions rotating in and out of first place. Sessions was ousted as attorney general in 2018 after his relationship with President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE soured because of the former senator's decision to recuse himself from the FBI investigation into Russia’s election meddling and the Trump campaign. Trump’s relationship with Sessions has loomed over the race, but he’s largely kept his distance publicly during the Republican primary. Sessions and Tuberville, as well as Rep. Bradley ByrneBradley Roberts ByrneSessions to face Tuberville in Alabama GOP Senate runoff This week: House eyes vote on emergency coronavirus funding The 14 other key races to watch on Super Tuesday MORE (R-Ala.), who finished in third place, touted themselves during the primary as the candidate most aligned with Trump. Whoever wins the runoff election will face off against Democratic Sen. Doug Jones (D-Ala.), who is widely viewed as the most vulnerable Democratic senator. Jones won his seat in 2017 when he beat GOP Senate nominee Roy MooreRoy Stewart MooreSessions to face Tuberville in Alabama GOP Senate runoff Trump looms as flashpoint in Alabama Senate battle Alabama Senate contender hits Sessions in new ad: 'Hillary still ain't in jail' MORE, who faced multiple accusations of sexual misconduct with teenage girls when he was in his 30s. Moore also ran again for the party's nomination this year but lost on Tuesday night. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) on Tuesday night referred to both Tuberville and Sessions as "deeply flawed." The Alabama Senate race is ranked by The Cook Political Report as "leans Republican." Updated at 11:45 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.