Former President Obama spoke with former presidential candidate Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE after he dropped out of the 2020 race Sunday, The New York Times reported Monday.  Obama reportedly did not directly tell Buttigieg to endorse former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE. But he did tell the former South Bend, Ind., mayor that he now has leverage and should consider how to use it, a Democratic official familiar with the conversation told the Times.  A source confirmed to The Hill on Monday that Buttigieg plans to endorse Biden, who is also set to get the backing of Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.), who will announce the end of her own 2020 White House bid on Monday. Buttigieg positioned himself as a moderate candidate and an alternative to self-described democratic socialist Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.), whom he indirectly criticized in his announcement speech.  “We need leadership to heal a divided nation, not drive us further apart,” he said. “We need a broad based agenda to truly deliver for the American people, not one that gets lost in ideology. We need an approach strong enough not only to win the White House, but hold the House, win the Senate and send [Senate Majority Leader] Mitch McConnellAddison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Senate seeks massive permanent boost in conservation funding  House passes .3 billion measure to fight coronavirus MORE into retirement.” The former mayor earned 26 delegates from Iowa, New Hampshire and Nevada, beating Sanders in the Hawkeye State. Sanders currently holds the most delegates at 60, while Biden’s Saturday win in South Carolina boosted him to second place in the primary field with 54 delegates.  Amie Parnes contributed. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.