The Federal Reserve on Tuesday delivered a surprise 0.5 percentage point interest rate cut to try and mitigate the impact of the coronavirus on the US economy.Given the economic risks posed by the coronavirus, the Fed's decision to cut rates was smart.The rate cut should boost economic activity at the margins and pose a minimal risk of causing excess inflation.George Pearkes is the global macro strategist for Bespoke Investment Group.This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those of the author.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Today the Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate target by 0.5 percentage points, the first such "inter-meeting" or "emergency" cut since the global financial crisis. They were right to do so.Markets have been reeling for the past two weeks as investors price in potential implications ofthe spread of COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus which has infected tens of thousands around the world and killed nearly 3,000 people so far.In China, where the virus originated, the government reacted by shutting down public activity like transit or travel, enforcing regional and personal quarantines, and generally keeping people from interacting much.While the intense Chinese response came too late to contain the initial spread of the virus, the results since the more stringent measures were imposed have been a huge success; even including the ground zero for the outbreak, Hubei Province. Chinese case counts have slowed significantly, with tens of thousands of patients recovering from the virus as well.Despite the improving conditions among patients, the economic impact on the country has been massive. China's purchasing manager index readings plunged as the country's factories were shuttered for most of February and services businesses faced a lack of customers. Traffic on city streets, and even pollution numbers all swan-dived.


The lesson from China: countries can stop the flow of the virus through their populations, but doing so requires drastically reducing economic activity.Containing the virus could be a major economic dragThe best data from the Chinese outbreak suggests that the coronavirus has a mortality rate of around 2%. So if half the US population contracted the virus, we could expect roughly 3.1 million deaths, of which almost two-thirds would come from victims over the age of 70, even though those ages are only about 11% of our population.Death rates of below 0.25% have been reported in aggregate for the less than 40 population, meaning the virus' impact is skewed aggressively towards the top end of the age distribution.In order to prevent those deaths, the US may need to take some kind of action similar to China, and the results would be a massive shock to economic activity just as with the Chinese experience. Already some economists, including former Fed Chair Janet Yellen, are warning about the potential for a major slowdown in US activity.US data this week showed that companies are already starting to run out of goods sourced from China thanks to the long shutdown in that economy. That supply shock will likely slow economic activity without impacts to aggregate demand.


But rapid declines in interest rates also suggest that demand will fall too, because pure supply shocks typically create inflation along with their decline in real activity. Falling long-term rates mean lower inflation risk, not a supply shock environment.So today, the Fed moved to ease some of the impact on activity by lowering rates. While various kinds of lending happen at different points on the curve, the move today lowered rates for car loans, mortgages, and inventory financing across the economy. While the impact may not be huge, at the margin they moved to increase economic growth relative to the outlook as-of last week.And the risks of making this interest rate cut now are negligible. The banking system is robustly capitalized and does not currently show the sorts of risks it was building up (leverage especially) in the mid-2000s. Consumers' ability to pay down their debt looks reasonable, and is in much better shape than during the last two expansions. And core PCE (the FOMC's preferred measure of inflation) is well short of the Fed's target of 2%.We don't know how bad COVID-19 will get in the US. But if things get bad, rate cuts now will help more than rate cuts later. And the downside to cuts given low inflation and already-falling markets looks negligible. Fed rate cuts also aren't a vaccine, as Chair Powell said today. Public health authorities at all levels of government are best-equipped to fight the virus, but the Fed can at least avoid making things worse. 


The monetary policy rule that accounts for growth, inflation, and unemployment called the "Taylor Rule" would argue for 0.75 percentage points worth of cuts if GDP growth goes from 2% to 0%, while estimates of financial markets' impact on growth would suggest recent stock market declines and credit spread increases justify 0.50 percentage points of easing.In a real sense, the FOMC is simply doing what the textbooks say it should, and given the asymmetric risk-reward of the choices it faces, Fed policymakers have chosen correctly.George Pearkes is the global macro strategist for Bespoke Investment Group. He covers markets and economies around the world and across assets, relying on economic data and models, policy analysis, and behavioral factors to guide asset allocation, idea generation, and analytical background for individual investors and large institutions.



This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those of the author(s).








 
 Read the original article on Opinion Contributor. Copyright 2020.