Nearly a dozen people have died of coronavirus in the U.S. as the first fatality was confirmed outside Washington state on Wednesday. Officials in Placer County, Calif., said an elderly adult with underlying health conditions has died from the virus, bringing the U.S. death toll to 11. The patient had tested positive on Tuesday and was in isolation at Kaiser Permanente Roseville, officials said in a release. “We extend our deepest condolences to the loved ones of this patient,” Placer County Health Officer Aimee Sisson said. “While we have expected more cases, this death is an unfortunate milestone in our efforts to fight this disease, and one that we never wanted to see." The patient was "likely exposed" while on a Princess cruise ship Feb. 11-21 that went from San Francisco to Mexico, officials said, noting the case was "travel-related." Officials said their "preliminary understanding" was that the patient had "minimal community exposure" between the cruise and being taken to the hospital. The health care workers who responded to the patient before they were put in isolation are under quarantine and are not showing symptoms as of now. County health officials are working with Sacramento County Public Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to find other cruise passengers. The California death came as Washington state’s Department of Health confirmed its 10th death, which occurred in King County. The state's health department updated its number of confirmed cases to 39 on Wednesday, an increase of 12 cases from Tuesday. Nine of Washington's 10 deaths have occurred in King County, which includes Seattle and a nursing home in Kirkland connected to seven of the previously confirmed deaths. It was unclear if the latest confirmed death was associated with the nursing home, according to Seattle station Q13 Fox News. More than a dozen states have confirmed cases of coronavirus. The U.S. has a total of 148 cases, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Gov. Jay InsleeJay Robert InsleeCalifornia reports state's first coronavirus fatality as US death toll hits 11 Pence to travel to Washington as state grapples with coronavirus Emerald City Comic Con will take place in Seattle amid coronavirus fears  MORE (D) declared a state of emergency for Washington on Saturday.  Vice President Pence, whom President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE put in charge of the administration's coronavirus efforts, announced that he will travel to the state Thursday. Updated: 3:19 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.