Former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE spoke to supporters in Los Angeles on Tuesday, following a string of early Super Tuesday victories in states including Massachusetts, Minnesota, Virginia and North Carolina. Biden hailed House Majority Whip James Clyburn (D-S.C.), whose endorsement of Biden proved instrumental to the former vice president’s landslide victory in the South Carolina primary over the weekend. His staggering victory in the Southern state could be what has given Biden the burst of momentum seen in the early Super Tuesday nominating contests.  “I was proud to be endorsed by Jim ClyburnJames (Jim) Enos ClyburnSanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' Clyburn takes victory lap after Biden wins big on Super Tuesday Five takeaways from Biden's Super Tuesday MORE, man, he is something else,” Biden said. “Our campaign reflects the diversity of this party and this nation, because we need to bring everybody along. We want a nominee who will keep Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE the Speaker of the House and win back the United States Senate.” Biden declared himself as a "lifelong Democrat," possibly contrasting himself with fellow competitor Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.). Biden has frequently claimed a Sanders ticket would lead to down-ballot losses for Democrats in the general election. The former vice president then switched gears during his speech, taking aim at President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE.  “This all starts with a revival of decency and honesty and character,” Biden added, castigating Trump.  “The way he talks about people, he has not a single sense of empathy, he doesn’t have any compassion. … He looks at honesty and decency and respect as a sign of weakness, he doesn’t believe we’re all part of something bigger than ourselves.” “We need a president who can fight but we need as badly someone who can heal,” Biden added. The former vice president went on to quote Irish poet Seamus Heaney. “He said, ‘History says, Don't hope/On this side of the grave,/But then, once in a lifetime/The longed-for tidal wave/Of justice can rise up/And hope and history rhyme.’ We can make hope and history rhyme,” Biden said. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.