Welcome to The Hill's Campaign Report, your daily rundown on all the latest news in the 2020 presidential, Senate and House races. Did someone forward this to you? Click here to subscribe. We're Julia Manchester, Max Greenwood and Jonathan Easley. Here's what we're watching today on the campaign trail.    LEADING THE DAY:  Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) is poised to emerge from Super Tuesday with a lead in delegates, and the centrists who want to stop him have come to a stark realization: It's time to band together or watch him run away with the nomination. Former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE's massive victory in South Carolina was a tipping point for the moderate Democrats who are worried that Sanders will lose to President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE in the general election. Biden's victory on Saturday unlocked a flood of new donations and endorsements for his campaign. Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) ended her presidential campaign on Monday and is en route to Dallas to back Biden's bid. Former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE, who dropped out on Sunday night, will also endorse Biden for president. Among the current lawmakers who have announced their support for Biden over the past 24 hours: Sen. Tammy DuckworthLadda (Tammy) Tammy DuckworthSanders poised for big Super Tuesday Establishment Democrats rallying behind Biden Senators see tide turning toward Biden after big win MORE (D-Ill.), Reps. Veronica EscobarVeronica EscobarPolls show big bounce to Biden ahead of Super Tuesday Sanders poised for big Super Tuesday Establishment Democrats rallying behind Biden MORE (D-Texas), Bobby ScottRobert (Bobby) Cortez ScottBlack voters propel Biden to big wins in Virginia, NC, Alabama Spanberger endorses Biden amid Virginia primary victory Biden notches major win in Virginia primary MORE (D-Va.), Jennifer WextonJennifer Lynn WextonBlack voters propel Biden to big wins in Virginia, NC, Alabama Biden notches major win in Virginia primary Polls show big bounce to Biden ahead of Super Tuesday MORE (D-Va.), Don Beyer (D-Va.), Debbie Wasserman SchultzDeborah (Debbie) Wasserman SchultzSanders poised for big Super Tuesday Establishment Democrats rallying behind Biden Senators see tide turning toward Biden after big win MORE (D-Fla.) and Greg StantonGregory (Greg) John StantonSanders poised for big Super Tuesday The Hill's Campaign Report: Centrists rush behind Biden to stop Sanders Lawmakers discuss how to work together in midst of impeachment fight MORE (D-Ariz.). Party leaders coming out in support of Biden include former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, as well as former Sens. Harry ReidHarry Mason ReidWinners and losers from Super Tuesday The Memo: Biden shakes up Democratic race with Super Tuesday wins Polls show big bounce to Biden ahead of Super Tuesday MORE (D-Nev.) and Barbara BoxerBarbara Levy BoxerPolls show big bounce to Biden ahead of Super Tuesday Sanders poised for big Super Tuesday Establishment Democrats rallying behind Biden MORE (D-Calif.). Biden, who has struggled to raise money, took in an astonishing $10 million over the course of 24 hours following his South Carolina victory. The big question: Will the relatively late movement behind Biden be enough to blunt Sanders's momentum heading into Super Tuesday? Fourteen states will cast ballots tomorrow, including California, where Sanders is expected to win big, and Texas, where he's led comfortably. Texas and California are the two biggest delegate prizes on the map. Sanders is also expected to win Utah, Colorado, Maine and Vermont. He's the favorite to win in Minnesota, now that Klobuchar is out, and he's pushing to win in Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE's home state of Massachusetts. The polls in Virginia and North Carolina are close and could tip toward either Biden or Sanders. Biden needs to win in the south, where voters in Arkansas, Tennessee and Alabama are headed to the polls. The wild card on Tuesday is former New York City Mayor Michael BloombergMichael BloombergBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE, who has spent hundreds of millions of dollars and will be on the ballot for the first time.  Bloomberg is clearly cutting into Biden's support in the polls in Texas. But there are real questions about whether Bloomberg's national ad campaign will translate into real votes when it matters most. We'll find out about that and a lot more when polls close tomorrow. -- Jonathan Easley   READ MORE:  The Hill's Max Greenwood: Klobuchar to drop out, endorse Biden. The Hill's Julia Manchester and Amie Parnes: Buttigieg to endorse Biden. The Hill's Jonathan Easley: Top liberal group endorses Sanders.   FROM CONGRESS AND THE STATES:  Biden is ramping up his attacks on Sanders, warning that the progressive independent will cost Democrats seats in the House and Senate. "There's an awful lot of people who are running for office who don't want to run with Bernie at the top of the ticket as a self-proclaimed socialist. Imagine here in Texas or in North Carolina or in Georgia, the idea, if I said to you, 'This is an open test. You're running for office. Do you want a very popular, self-proclaimed socialist or a popular mainstream Democrat running at the top of the ticket?' My guess is in most states, they'd say no." - Biden in an interview with CBS News.   Massachusetts Rep. Joe KennedyJoseph (Joe) Patrick Kennedy5 states to watch on Super Tuesday The Hill's Campaign Report: Centrists rush behind Biden to stop Sanders Democratic candidates gear up for a dramatic Super Tuesday MORE (D) holds a six-point lead over longtime incumbent Sen. Ed MarkeyEdward (Ed) John MarkeyMarkey questions Amazon on price gouging due to coronavirus Hillicon Valley: Democrats in talks to bridge surveillance divide | DHS confident in Super Tuesday election security | State pledges M cyber help to Ukraine | Facebook skipping SXSW amid coronavirus Markey presses facial recognition company over Middle Eastern marketing, potential child privacy violations MORE (D) in the Bay State's Democratic Senate primary, according to a Suffolk University/WBZ/Boston Globe survey released on Sunday.   The House Democrats' campaign arm is targeting seven House Republicans in ads over the Trump administration's response to coronavirus and the affordability of a potential vaccine, The Hill's Rebecca Klar reports.   PERSPECTIVES: Antjuan Seawright: February gladness brings March madness Glenn Greenwald: Democrats should beware a brokered convention The Nation: Bernie Sanders for president Isaac Chotiner: How socialist is Bernie Sanders? Perry Bacon, Jr.: Why Buttigieg dropped out   POLL WATCH: MORNING CONSULT Sanders: 29 percent  Biden: 26 percent Bloomberg: 17 percent Warren: 11 percent   NORTH CAROLINA (High Point): Sanders: 31 percent Bloomberg: 18 percent Biden: 14 percent Warren: 11 percent   MARK YOUR CALENDARS: Super Tuesday is tomorrow.  March 10: -Idaho primaries -Michigan primaries -Mississippi primaries -Missouri primaries -North Dakota Democratic caucuses -Washington State primaries   March 15: -Eleventh Democratic presidential primary debate   March 17: -Arizona Democratic primary -Florida primaries -Illinois primaries -Ohio primaries   March 24: -Georgia primaries   March 29: Puerto Rico Democratic primary   ONE FUN THING: Former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) and other Virginia politicians were late to a press conference for former Vice President Joe Biden on Monday after the elevator they were riding in got stuck.  About 30 minutes after the 8 a.m. press conference was expected to begin, McAuliffe tweeted out an update to explain his absence.  "Hey @JoeBiden ! If you are wondering about why we are not at our 8am press conference for you - we are stuck in an elevator in downtown RICHMOND. 30 minutes and counting!" McAuliffe tweeted along with a group photo that included Khizr Khan, the Gold Star father who spoke at the 2016 Democratic National Convention, and Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney.    Hey @JoeBiden! If you are wondering about why we are not at our 8am press conference for you - we are stuck in an elevator in downtown RICHMOND. 30 minutes and counting! #TeamJoe pic.twitter.com/SVpTIUoYfC    Minutes after the tweet, the Richmond Fire Department came to the rescue.     UPDATE: Saved! THANK YOU RICHMOND Fire Department @iaff1286 always has #TeamJoe’s back! pic.twitter.com/aB0GHCzf1Q  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.