Welcome to The Hill's Campaign Report, your daily rundown on all the latest news in the 2020 presidential, Senate and House races. Did someone forward this to you? Click here to subscribe. We're Julia Manchester, Max Greenwood and Jonathan Easley. Here's what we're watching today on the campaign trail.    LEADING THE DAY: JOEMENTUM: Former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE is feeling the momentum today after a slew of wins on Super Tuesday. Biden won at least nine of the 14 states up for grabs and currently leads the delegate race with 513 delegates. Biden scored big in the South, following his huge win in South Carolina on Saturday. Virginia and North Carolina were called for Biden within minutes of the polls closing in those states. He also racked up big wins in Alabama, Arkansas and Tennessee. He even eked out a win in Texas, where progressive Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) was leading in the polls. Biden's support among the African American community was what, in large part, put him over the top in the south. This all started with the endorsement of House Majority Whip James Clyburn (D-S.C.) last week. "On the day after the Saturday vote, I went to North Carolina," Clyburn told me last night. "I heard from people in Goldsboro, [and] people in Fayetteville [who said], your endorsement was exactly what we were waiting for."    While he continues to trail Biden in the delegate count, Sanders did win the biggest prize of the evening, California, along with Colorado, Utah and his home state of Vermont. However, the progressive senator still trails the former vice president, carrying 461 delegates. Sanders showed no sign of letting up in the wake of the Super Tuesday results, telling reporters in Burlington on Wednesday that he and Biden will be going forward "neck-and-neck." With former New York City Mayor Michael BloombergMichael BloombergBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE out of the race, and Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE's (D-Mass.) poor showing on Super Tuesday, Sanders assessment of the race appears to be correct.    The new dynamics in the race, which developed rapidly over the course of 72 hours, further solidify the moderate-progressive divide within the Democratic Party. Sanders and Biden will turn their sights to the March 10 presidential primaries in Michigan, Idaho, Washington, Mississippi, Missouri and North Dakota. Sanders already hit Biden over his record on what he called "disastrous trade agreements" on Wednesday, as he focuses more on the Midwest. However, cracks could already be emerging for Sanders in the Midwest, especially in Michigan, which he won in 2016. A Detroit News/WDIV-TV poll released Tuesday shows Biden leading Sanders by nearly seven points in the state.  --Julia Manchester    READ MORE:  The Hill's Jonathan Easley: Five takeaways from Super Tuesday. The Hill's Jonathan Easley: Biden seeks to capitalize on Super Tuesday surprise The Hill's Niall Stanage: Winners and losers. The Hill's Max Greenwood: Democratic turnout surges.   FROM THE TRAIL: Bloomberg dropped out of the 2020 race on Wednesday after a disappointing performance on Super Tuesday despite spending hundreds of millions of dollars in advertisements. Bloomberg threw his support behind Biden, giving the former vice president endorsements from four former rivals over the past few days.   Warren, meanwhile, is reassessing her campaign after a poor showing on Super Tuesday, underscored by a third place finish in her home state.   PERSPECTIVES:  Steve IsraelSteven (Steve) J. IsraelThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday How Joe Biden won Super Tuesday The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Facebook - Trump on US coronavirus risks: 'We're very, very ready for this' MORE: How Joe Biden won Super Tuesday Max Friedman: How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba Jim Newell: Democrats fall in line Jeet Heer: Biden's electability problem Ezra Klein: Sanders can't lead Democrats if he treats them like the enemy   FROM CONGRESS AND THE STATES: Montana Gov. Steve BullockSteve BullockRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Montana's Democratic governor plans last-minute run for Senate Overnight Energy: Senate seeks massive boost in conservation funding | White House raises objections over plan to reduce heat-trapping chemicals | Interior chief defends budget amid heated criticism MORE (D) is expected to launch a bid for Senate in his home state, reversing course after months of insisting that he would not do so, The Hill's Reid Wilson reports. His candidacy would give Democrats a top recruit for a seat that could add to their prospects of recapturing control of the Senate in November. Democrats are largely playing offense this year, bullish about their chances of flipping seats in Colorado, Arizona, North Carolina and Maine. But they are also bracing for a potential loss in Alabama, making them all the more eager to bring Montana into play.   Sen. Kelly LoefflerKelly LoefflerThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Nikki Haley expected to endorse Loeffler in Senate race GOP, Democrats hash out 2020 strategy at dueling retreats MORE (R-Ga.) is set to get a big boost from one of the Republican Party's most prominent members. Nikki HaleyNimrata (Nikki) HaleyThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Nikki Haley expected to endorse Loeffler in Senate race CNN's Begala: Trump will 'dump Pence' for Haley on day of Democratic nominee's acceptance speech MORE, the former South Carolina governor and United Nations ambassador, is expected to endorse Loeffler in her special election battle against Rep. Doug CollinsDouglas (Doug) Allen CollinsThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Lawmakers grill Amazon, eBay executives over online counterfeits Nikki Haley expected to endorse Loeffler in Senate race MORE (R-Ga.), The Hill's Juliegrace Brufke reports. Haley teased the endorsement in a video message posted on Twitter on Wednesday. "Hi Georgia friends, it's Nikki Haley and I am coming to Atlanta on Monday with a super exciting announcement. I hope you'll stay tuned -- I look forward to seeing you soon," she said. The endorsement would be a big get for Loeffler, who was appointed in December to fill the seat of retired Sen. Johnny IsaksonJohnny IsaksonThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Nikki Haley expected to endorse Loeffler in Senate race GOP, Democrats hash out 2020 strategy at dueling retreats MORE (R-Ga.).   Former Attorney General Jeff SessionsJefferson (Jeff) Beauregard SessionsThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Trump criticizes Sessions after Alabama Senate primary heads to a runoff The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - A huge night for Joe Biden MORE is heading to a runoff in his bid to recapture his old Senate seat in Alabama, The Hill's Jordain Carney reports. Sessions, who left the Senate in 2017 to run President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE's Justice Department, will face former Auburn University football coach Tommy Tuberville in the March 31 runoff, after neither candidate was able to win the 50 percent of the vote needed on Tuesday to clinch the Republican Senate nomination. The eventual winner will face off against Sen. Doug Jones (D-Ala.) in the November general election.    Cal Cunningham will take on Sen. Thom TillisThomas (Thom) Roland TillisThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday NC Democrat Cal Cunningham set to face Tillis in November Tillis wins North Carolina Senate primary MORE (R-N.C.) in North Carolina's Senate race in November after he bested three rivals in a Democratic primary contest on Tuesday, Jordain reports. Cunningham, a former state senator, was the favorite to win heading into the primary, having won the backing of national Democrats, including the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Meanwhile, Tillis easily scored the GOP nomination after facing only nominal opposition within his own party. The Senate race in North Carolina is expected to be among the most competitive of 2020.   POLL WATCH: WDIV/DETROIT NEWS – MICHIGAN Biden: 29.2 percent Sanders: 22.5 percent Bloomberg: 10.5 percent Warren: 6.7 percent Buttigieg: 5.8 percent Klobuchar: 2.7 percent   MARK YOUR CALENDARS: March 10: -Idaho primaries -Michigan primaries -Mississippi primaries -Missouri primaries -North Dakota Democratic caucuses -Washington State primaries   March 15: -Eleventh Democratic presidential primary debate   March 17: -Arizona Democratic primary -Florida primaries -Illinois primaries -Ohio primaries   March 24: -Georgia primaries   March 29: Puerto Rico Democratic primary   ONE FUN THING: THE BODYGUARDS: Jill Biden and the former vice president's senior adviser Symone SandersSymone SandersThe Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday The Hill's 12:30 Report: Super Tuesday fallout Amy Schumer calls Jill Biden 'a warrior' after she blocks protester MORE stole the show at Biden's Super Tuesday night rally in Los Angeles last night when they both intercepted an anti-dairy protester on stage.  The moment, which nearly broke the internet, started when Biden turned around to notice the protester yelling "Let dairy die" from the crowd of supporters behind the podium, Jill Biden went into action, blocking her husband from the protester.  Then Sanders leapt into the fray, pulling the protester off the stage.     "Let Dairy Die" protesters interrupt Joe Biden #SuperTuesday speech. pic.twitter.com/0g5rrjpxUR    Sanders later quipped on Twitter that she broke a nail protecting her boss.     I broke a nail. #SuperTuesday    It's safe to say that Biden can rely on his wife and adviser in these types of situations on stage going forward in the campaign.  We'll see you tomorrow with the latest news from the campaign trail!   View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.