We're continuing to get results from Super Tuesday, when 16 Democratic primaries and caucuses took place on the same day.Former VP Joe Biden absolutely crushed the competition and majorly surpassed expectations with big wins in Virginia, Alabama, Arkansas, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Minnesota, Massachusetts, and most recently, the delegate-rich state of Texas.Sen. Bernie Sanders was completely knocked back on his heels, only winning the relatively small states of Colorado, Utah, and his home state of Vermont. Right now, Sanders' last opportunity to run up the score and catch up to Biden is California, the biggest delegate prize of the primary where he currently leads with almost half the vote reporting. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Super Tuesday is by far the biggest day in the Democratic primary process. Follow along for live results here.Here's what happened so far:  Former VP Joe Biden started off the night strong by overwhelmingly winning the Virginia presidential primary, kicking off a winning streak across the country — including in places where Sanders led the polls.Biden went on to win the Alabama, Arkansas, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Minnesota, Tennessee, Massachusetts, and Texas primaries.Sen. Bernie Sanders has so far won only smaller states like Colorado, Utah, and his home of state of Vermont.A core constituency of the Democratic primary is consolidating behind Biden — Southern black voters carry Joe Biden to huge victories on Super Tuesday.The former VP got a boost from late deciders — Joe Biden's big Super Tuesday wins are likely helped by voters who decided last minute, polls suggestBiden faced a harrowing moment during his big night — Dairy industry protesters stormed the stage during Joe Biden's victory speech on Super TuesdayOther than winning the American Samoa caucuses, Mike Bloomberg is having a really bad night so far — Bloomberg spent 50 times as much as Biden in Virginia and still got demolished and Bloomberg is seeing disastrous Super Tuesday results in states with early returns after spending a quarter of a billion dollarsPresident Trump is having a fun Super Tuesday online — Trump tweets video of 'Mini' Mike Bloomberg licking his 'dirty' fingers while eating pizza in apparent coronavirus referenceTulsi Gabbard's one delegate from the American Samoa caucuses could land her back on the debate stage —Tulsi Gabbard may have just qualified for the next Democratic debate thanks to American SamoaHere's the current delegate count, including the early results from Super Tuesday states: Here's what next: Polls closed in California at 8 p.m. local time and 11 p.m. Eastern Time. California and its huge chunk of delegates pose a crucial opportunity to run up the score as Biden crushes him almost everywhere else in the country, including states like Minnesota and Massachusetts where Sanders was largely favored to win.  We're still awaiting full results from Maine, where polls closed at 8 p.m. ET.We're also monitoring important down-ballot US Senate and House races in North Carolina, Alabama, Texas, and California.Biden has now officially overtaken Sanders in the delegate race — Decision Desk HQ estimates that Biden has won 242 pledged delegates so far compared to 186 for Sanders, 29 for former Mayor Mike Bloomberg, and seven for Sen. Elizabeth Warren. Stay tuned for more delegate updates. Pre-primary coverage:


Power outages have been reported at some Los Angeles polling placesMike Bloomberg, whose nationwide advertising campaign will be put to the test today, said his only path to the nomination is through a contested conventionThe Sanders campaign rolled out an ancient tool from a simpler era: Facebook profile picture overlaysAll about Super Tuesday:Everything you need to know about Super Tuesday on March 3, the biggest day in the Democratic primariesHere's how Democrats will elect their presidential nominee over the next several monthsWhat's at stake on Super Tuesday? Every state has a certain number of delegates to allocate, determined by factors including how big the state is, how Democratic it leans, when it votes, and whether it votes with its neighbors.On Tuesday, 1,357 pledged delegates, accounting for 35% of all the delegates allotted throughout the Democratic nomination process, will be allocated from 14 states and one US territory, and from Democrats living abroad:Vermont allocates 16 pledged delegates to the convention, or 0.4% of the total. Polls closed at 7 p.m. ET.Virginia allocates 99 pledged delegates to the convention, or 2.3% of the total. Polls closed at 7 p.m.North Carolina allocates 110 pledged delegates to the convention, or 2.8% of the total. Polls closed at 7:30 p.mAlabama allocates 52 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 1.4% of the total delegates allocated throughout the primary. Polls closed in most Alabama counties at 8 p.m.Maine allocates 24 pledged delegates to the convention, or 0.6% of the total. Polls closed at 8 p.m.Massachusetts allocates 91 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 2.3% of the total. Polls closed at 8 p.m.Oklahoma allocates 37 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 0.9% of the total. Polls closed at 7 p.m. CT (8 p.m. ET).Tennessee allocates 64 pledged delegates to the convention, or 1.6% of the total. Polls in the Tennessee counties in Central Time closed at 7 p.m. and those in Eastern Time close at 8 p.m.Texas allocates 228 pledged delegates to the convention, accounting for 5.7% of the total. Polls closed at 7 p.m. CT.Arkansas allocates 34 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 0.8% of the total. Polls closed at 7:30 p.m. CT. Colorado allocates 67 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 1.7% of the total. Polls closed at 7 p.m. CT.Minnesota allocates 75 pledged delegates to the convention, accounting for 1.9% of the total. Polls close at 8 p.m. CT. Utah allocates 29 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 0.7% of the total. Polls close at 8 p.m. MT (10 p.m. ET).California allocates 415 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 10.7% of the total. Polls closed at 8 p.m. PT (11 p.m. ET), but final results may be delayed for days as officials count mail-in and absentee ballots.American Samoa allocates six pledged delegates to the convention. Because American Samoa is six hours behind Eastern Time, we won't have results until Tuesday afternoon.Democrats abroad vote absentee between March 3 and 10 and account for 13 pledged delegates to the convention, making up 0.3% of total delegates.


Democrats allocate most of their pledged delegates proportionally by legislative district, in addition to allocating at-large and PLEO (party leader and elected official) delegates based on the statewide vote breakdown.Most states allocate their delegates by congressional districts, but some, like Texas and New Jersey, use state legislative districts instead.While delegates are allocated proportionally, in nearly every state the minimum threshold to earn delegates is 15% of the vote. This means candidates must break 15% of the vote at either the district or state level to earn any delegates at all.At the convention, a candidate will be nominated when they earn a simple majority of 1,991 out of 3,979 total pledged delegates.DELEGATE COUNT: Here's who's winning the race for the 2020 Democratic nominationWho did the polling say was ahead in each state?According to FiveThirtyEight's averages of the latest polling data, Sen. Bernie Sanders led the polls in California, Colorado, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and his home state of Vermont. 


Sanders was neck-and-neck with former VP Joe Biden in North Carolina polls while Biden and former Mayor Mike Bloomberg led the few recent polls of Oklahoma. According to FiveThirtyEight's primary election forecast, Biden was projected to win the most delegates in Alabama, American Samoa, Arkansas, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.Sanders was projected to win the most delegates in California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Maine, Utah, and Vermont, while neither Bloomberg nor Sen. Elizabeth Warren are projected to win the most delegates in any state. Read more: The 19 election nights you need to know for the 2020 Democratic and Republican presidential primaries and caucuses


Here are the last days you can register to vote for the 2020 primary elections in every state and how to do itThe current Democratic field would produce the oldest president ever — here are the ages of every candidate