* Soybean touch 5-week high as Asian shares recover Stimulus hopes add support after Argentina export halt * Gains curbed by virus fears as global spread continues * Corn ticks up, wheat weak near three-month low (Updates with European trading, changes byline/dateline) By Gus Trompiz and Naveen Thukral PARIS/SINGAPORE, March 2 (Reuters) - Chicago soybeans rose on Monday to touch a five-week high as growing expectations of interest rate cuts to cushion the impact of the fast-spreading coronavirus outbreak helped financial markets steady after massive losses last week. U.S. soybeans were also underpinned by a halt to export registrations in rival supplier Argentina as well as a firmer trend in Malaysian palm oil futures. However, gains were curbed by persistent fears over the rising number of cases of the virus around the world, including in the United States. Chicago corn edged up while wheat eased to hold near Friday's three-month low. World stock markets regained some calm as hopes for global interest rate cuts to soften the economic blow of the virus steadied nerves after last week's worst plunge since the 2008 financial crisis. The death toll from the virus rose above 3,000. "Grain markets moved slightly higher as any hope of market support was capped by remaining fears of the spread of coronavirus," brokerage Allendale said in a note. The most-active soybean contract on the Chicago Board Of Trade added 0.8% to $8.99-1/2 a bushel by 1309 GMT, after earlier reaching $9.03-1/2, its highest since Jan. 24. Argentina's Ministry of Agriculture last week suspended the registration of agricultural exports until further notice, it said, a move that traders said likely foreshadowed a steep increase in grains export tariffs. However, export competition from Brazil was expected to remain stiff this year as the country harvests what is widely tipped to be a record crop. Soybean and cereal markets also face uncertainty over Chinese demand, with the coronavirus crisis there adding to doubts about whether Beijing would fulfill targets in a trade deal with Washington to ramp up purchases of U.S. farm goods. CBOT corn was up 0.5% at $3.70-1/4 a bushel. Wheat was down 1.0% at $5.19-3/4 a bushel, near Friday's low of $5.12-1/2. Wheat also faced pressure from a recent decline in Russian prices as well as expectations for another large global crop this year. (Reporting by Gus Trompiz in Paris and Naveen Thukral in Singapore; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu and David Evans)