Former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE and Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) in interviews on Sunday both condemned President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE’s and his administration's response to the coronavirus outbreak. The two 2020 Democratic presidential candidates criticized the president’s response as the threat from the virus expands in the U.S., with the first recorded death from the disease confirmed in Washington state on Saturday. Biden said on ABC's "This Week" that his response as president would have been “fundamentally different,” denouncing the administration for previously cutting funding to the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention and appointing Vice President Mike PenceMichael (Mike) Richard PenceOvernight Health Care: House passes .3B measure to fight coronavirus | US death toll hits 11 | New guidance for nursing homes over virus | Roberts wrestles with Louisiana abortion law in high-stakes case Trump administration issues new guidance for nursing homes to combat coronavirus Trump touts economic success at Hispanic convention MORE to lead the fight against the disease, among other concerns.  “This has been outrageous the way they proceeded,” he said. “They should let the scientists speak.” The former vice president also slammed Trump for comments during a rally in South Carolina where the president called the Democrats’ criticism of the coronavirus response “a hoax” and compared it to the impeachment. “This is not a Democratic hoax,” Biden said. “This is incompetence on the part of the president of the United States at the expense of the country and the world.”  “I see no preparedness other than political talking points, putting someone in charge who is not a scientist and muzzling the scientists," Joe Biden says on Trump's response to the coronavirus."This is not a Democratic hoax, this is incompetence ...” https://t.co/23kgGkwFyy pic.twitter.com/BZUdtNtDCl  Sanders on the same show also knocked the administration's reaction to the outbreak, saying that as governments globally are trying to combat the virus, Trump took to South Carolina to “undermine” the Democratic primary, which “blows me away.”  “How pathetic is it that in the midst of an international health care crisis, you’ve got a president running into South Carolina trying to steal some media attention away from Democrats,” the senator said.  Bernie Sanders slams Trump amid coronavirus outbreak: “How pathetic is it that in the midst of an international health care crisis, you’ve got a president running into South Carolina trying to steal some media attention away from Democrats.” https://t.co/wGwD0uWZ3e pic.twitter.com/cUE3T6Ts9u  Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar also appeared on “This Week” Sunday and cautioned against the “partisan sniping that we’re seeing.” “We don't need to have this made a political issue,” he said. “We're in a public health crisis here. We need to all be banding together.” The coronavirus has infected 72 people in the U.S., among more than 87,000 worldwide. Almost 3,000 have been killed from the virus, with one in the U.S. thus far, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.