AUSTIN, Texas — Republican Gov. Greg Abbott on Monday criticized a CDC decision to release a San Antonio patient who later tested positive for the coronavirus, highlighting growing tensions between federal and local officials as new cases of the respiratory disease are reported. The patient, who had been in Wuhan, China, was treated and tested negative twice before being discharged from the Texas Center for Infectious Disease, according to a Facebook post from San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg. Later, a third test came back positive. The patient spent about 12 hours in public in the interim, visiting a local mall and hotel near the airport. All three tests were done at CDC's headquarters in Atlanta, according to Texas health officials. "It appears to be a case of negligence with regard to how this person, who had the coronavirus, could leave TCID and go back into the general population,” said Abbott at a Monday morning news conference related to economic development. “I think they understand the magnitude of the error they made.” Abbott called the CDC’s actions “unacceptable” in a rare rebuke of the Trump administration. About 120 patients who were on the Diamond Princess cruise ship off the coast of Japan are scheduled to leave a 14-day quarantine in a San Antonio military base Monday. But Abbott and other local officials have called on the CDC to boost testing protocols to three tests in a 48-hour period instead of two over 24 hours. Texas also asked the health agency for a “written rationale” explaining why each patient should be released from quarantine, in a letter to the agency. “Local communities, the state, and the nation must be confident that CDC criteria is fully protecting U.S. communities from the risk of exposure,” wrote John Hellerstedt, the state health department commissioner, in a letter to HHS. The city of Austin is separately in discussions about whether to cancel the annual South by Southwest festival, a weeklong technology, music and film conference, according to Mayor Steve Adler’s office. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has already pulled out of the conference.