A surrogate for Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE said that the former presidential candidate believes that former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE will make a “phenomenal” president after Buttigieg ended his own campaign Sunday and endorsed Biden a day later. In an interview with Hill.TV, Jennifer Holdsworth explained that Buttigieg “knows that Joe Biden is going to make an excellent president” and that Buttigieg did not want to pick up delegates on Super Tuesday without a clear path to winning the Democratic nomination.  The only reason to stay in, she said, would have been to move toward a contested convention.  “But if you can’t win outright, what’s the plan there?," she said. "Then you’re going to hoard them and force a contested convention, and you know, the party right now is very split, and so I think anything that anybody can do to start to heal those wounds now is going to put us in a much better place to defeat Donald TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE in the fall.” Holdsworth, who also ran the former South Bend, Ind., mayor's campaign to be the Democratic National Committee chairman in 2017, said the sooner Democratic voters who supported different candidates could come together during the party’s primary “the better.” She cited the 2016 race between Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) and former Secretary of State Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE. “I think, unfortunately, a lot of us are still licking the wounds from 2016 in the party, where there was such as division that lasted so far into the summer that we weren’t really able to coalesce and go into the fall as a united front, and Donald Trump and the Republicans were able to exploit that,” she said. Holdsworth told Hill.TV that she has no question that Buttigieg believes that “the vice president is going to make a phenomenal president.” “We do have some very small differences in how we would approach policy, but what I always said, even when I came on the show, is that everybody on that debate stage has the same ideals. We have the same values, and we have the same goals. The question is, how do we get there? So I think as long as we can bridge those gaps and bridge those answers, we’re headed to a good place as a party, and the mayor endorsing VP Biden was part of that,” she added.  Buttigieg officially endorsed Biden during a joint appearance in Dallas on Monday after suspending his own campaign the day before.   “When I ran for president, we made it clear that the whole idea was about rallying the country together to defeat Donald Trump and to win the era for the values that we share. That was always a goal that was much bigger than me becoming president, and it is in the name of that very same goal that I’m delighted to endorse and support Joe Biden for president,” Buttigieg told the crowd of supporters.  Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.