The coverage on this live blog has ended — but for up-to-the-minute coverage on the coronavirus, visit the live blog from CNBC's Asia-Pacific team.  All times below are in Eastern Standard time. Twitter has joined a growing list of companies that have suspended business travel and events amid concerns about the spreading coronavirus outbreak. The social media company said it has halted non-critical travel effective immediately until the World Health Organization or the Centers for Disease Control clear companies to step back from pandemic precautionary measures, or when a coronavirus vaccine becomes available.  "Our goal is to reduce the risk that anyone at Twitter might contract or inadvertently spread the virus," said Jennifer Christie, head of human resources at Twitter. "It is important that we take these proactive steps to protect ourselves and others and minimize the spread of COVID-19." -- Kimball  American Airlines announced on Sunday that it will waive change fees up to 14 days prior to travel for customers who purchase tickets between March 1 and March 16. The announcement comes as more people grow reluctant to travel amid the coronavirus outbreak and airlines continue to scale back flying. Alaska Airlines and JetBlue have both scrapped flight cancellation fees due to the virus. Other major companies worldwide are also canceling international travel and conferences. American and Delta have suspended flights to Milan because of the outbreak in Italy, the biggest in Europe. All major U.S. airlines have scaled back flying in Asia. -- Newburger The spreading coronavirus epidemic shut down France's Louvre Museum on Sunday, with workers who guard its famous trove of artworks fearful of being contaminated by the museum's flow of tourists from around the world. Almost three-quarters of the Louvre's 9.6 million visitors last year came from abroad. The world's most popular museum welcomes tens of thousands of fans daily in Paris. "We are very worried because we have visitors from everywhere," said Andre Sacristin, a Louvre employee and union representative. "The risk is very, very, very great," he said in a phone interview. While there are no known virus infections among the museum's 2,300 workers, "it's only a question of time," he said. A short statement from the Louvre said a staff meeting about virus prevention efforts stopped the museum from opening as scheduled Sunday morning. -- Associated Press On Sunday, the Public Health Department for Seattle and King County in Washington announced two additional confirmed cases of the COVID-19 virus in King County residents, upping the total number of confirmed cases in the area to six. Four of the cases had already been reported, and one of those was of a man in his 50s who passed away, the state confirmed on Saturday. This marked the first confirmed death from the virus in the U.S. The Public Health Department for King County has said one of the four previously reported cases is of a U.S. Postal Service employee. The two new cases reported Sunday are both males in their 60s, who had underlying health conditions. -- Thomas A young woman tested positive for coronavirus in the southern Mexican state of Chiapas, state health authorities said on Sunday, marking the country's fifth case. Like another woman who tested positive for the virus in the northern Mexican state of Coahuila, the woman in Chiapas was studying in Milan, Italy. The woman tested positive for the virus on Saturday but is asymptomatic, state health authorities said in a press conference. -- Reuters  Media giant Thomson Reuters has canceled non-essential business travel for its employees to mainland China, Hong Kong and South Korea over mounting fears of the deadly coronavirus outbreak, a spokesperson confirmed to CNBC.  "Thomson Reuters has halted all non-essential travel to China, Hong Kong and South Korea. All other travel remains under constant review," a company spokesperson said.  The parent of Reuters News joins a growing list of major corporations that are halting employee travel due to virus concerns, including Amazon, Facebook and News Corp. The company is headquartered in Ontario, Canada, and has roughly 25,800 employees worldwide. -- Newburger  A 23-person class of pilots that was supposed to start training this week has been postponed. CNBC had reported the schedule change earlier on Sunday. The delay comes as the new coronavirus, or COVID-19, spreads, prompting United and its competitors to scale back some international routes. Pilot training can take several months before aviators start flying for the airline. The coronavirus is a new challenge for airlines that have been dealing with slower-than-expected growth because of the nearly yearlong grounding of the Boeing 737 Max after two fatal crashes. -- Josephs  The annual Ceraweek energy conference, which beings together oil ministers and industry executives, has been canceled. The conference was set to start on March 9 in Houston, Texas, with delegates from over 80 countries expected to attend.  IHS Markit, the London-based consultancy that hosts the event, cited increased concerns over the virus outbreak, including the World Health Organization raising the threat level on Friday; the U.S. government canceling a summit meeting in Las Vegas; and the increasing number of companies that are halting employee travel over virus concerns. -- Newburger British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he expected the new coronavirus to spread further inside Britain, following the announcement of another 12 positive tests on Sunday. "We've found about 35 people in this country have, or have had, the illness and clearly there may be more. That is likely now to spread a bit more," Johnson said during a visit to a public health facility in London. -- Reuters  Rhode Island Department of Health officials confirmed on Sunday the state's first case of the coronavirus. The patient is in their 40s and traveled to Italy in mid-February. There are more than 70 confirmed cases of the virus in the U.S.  The patient had limited travel in Rhode Island and did not go to work since returning from Italy, which has recently seen a surge in virus cases.  "We are not seeing widespread community transmission in Rhode Island, and the general level of risk for Rhode Islanders is still low," said Rhode Island DPH director Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott. -- Newburger  Delta Airlines has temporarily halted service between New York City and Milan, which recently experienced a surge in coronavirus cases. American Airlines has also suspended flights to the Italian city until April 25.  The airline's last flight from JFK to Milan will leave on Monday, March 2, and the last flight from Milan to JFK will depart on Tuesday, March 3. Service to and from Milan will resume on May 1 and 2, the airline said.  -- Newburger  The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is looking into a whistleblower's complaint that staff had inadequate protection from the coronavirus, HHS Secretary Alex Azar said.  "We are looking into these allegations. I am personally involved in doing so," Azar told CBS' "Face the Nation." A whistleblower has said workers from HSS were sent, without proper training and gear, to retrieve the first Americans evacuated from Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the virus. Those workers were deployed in California, the person said. Azar said Sunday: "There was no spreading of the disease from this." - Thomas It remains unclear how the first person to die from the coronavirus in the U.S. contacted the virus, U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar said Sunday morning on CBS' "Face the Nation." "We do not know how he contracted the virus yet," Azar said. "So that's why we, and the state of Washington, are deployed out there to try to trace who he had contact with, and how he might have gotten the virus."  It was confirmed on Saturday that a man in his 50s died from coronavirus. His case is currently being referred to as a "potential community case." There is currently no "discernable connection" that this man traveled to South Korea or any other impacted areas, Azar said. Health officials have said that more than 50 people in a Washington state nursing facility called Life Care are also sick and being tested for the virus. Azar said the U.S. "will have more community cases. … It's a matter of math." Clinical trials for a coronavirus vaccine could be just six weeks away, Vice President Mike Pence said on Fox New Channel's "Sunday Morning Futures." "Dr. Fauci made us aware a couple days ago that because of the expedited process that the FDA has approved, we actually are going to be able to go to clinical trials in six weeks on a vaccine for the coronavirus," said Pence. The vaccine likely won't be available for this season, Pence clarified. "But were working very earnestly with multiple providers and multiple researchers to develop a vaccine. We are clearing the red tape out of the way, the FDA is providing great leadership on this front to have a vaccine for the American people by next year." – Fitzgerald Former Vice President Joe Biden criticized President Donald Trump's response to the coronavirus outbreak in the U.S., accusing the administration of being largely unprepared. "We knew this was coming ... back as far as January," the current Democratic presidential hopeful said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union." "They didn't even begin to prepare the testing kits. ... That is kind of elementary." "The fact is, other nations have had thousands of test so far," Biden said on CNN. "What are we doing? Why are we just getting started?" "The idea that this is not a pandemic ... is absolutely bizarre," the former vice president said. -- Thomas More than 15,000 coronavirus testing kits are in the mail this weekend en route to health professionals, according to Vice President Mike Pence. There has been a concern that capacity is limited across the country to conduct tests amid a potential epidemic. The latest numbers show only 472 people so far have been tested in the U.S, according to the CDC.  "The FDA has approved a testing regime that state and local officials can be using," Pence said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union." He added the government is working with another "commercial provider" to send another 50,000 kits out. He did not provide details on the timing of when those kits would be finished. -- Thomas  Vice President Mike Pence is confident the stock market's weakness last week will recover. "This economy and particularly the stock market that saw some downturns this week, it'll come back," Pence said on NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday. The stock market experienced its worst week since the financial crisis as investors worried about the coronavirus denting global economic growth. "The fundamentals of this economy are strong. We just saw new numbers come out in housing, consumer confidence, business optimism, unemployment's at a 50 year low," Pence added. Pence said the Trump administration is focused on the health and safety of the American people. -- Fitzgerald The World Health Organization's director-general cautioned Sunday that other countries within the European Union might see coronavirus outbreaks similar to the rapid spread seen in Italy.  Italy has 1,128 confirmed cases as of Sunday, according to the WHO, which is the largest in Europe and the third largest globally. Infections are now being seen beyond the original epicenter in the north, with cases in Tuscany, Le Marche, Emilia Romagna, Alto Adige, Piedmont, Liguria, Lazio and Sicily, far south of the capital in Rome.  "Europe may have some surprises like Italy. You know, other developed countries in Europe may have surprises," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told CNBC's Hadley Gamble during a panel discussion at the King Salman Humanitarian Aid Center's International Humanitarian Forum in Riyadh. -- Clinch  There were 12 new coronavirus cases reported in England on Sunday morning, bringing the total number of cases in the U.K. to 35. Three of the patients were close contacts of a known case, while one patient — a resident in Essex — had no known travel history. The other cases were patients who had recently traveled from Italy and Iran, according to U.K. health officials. -- Newburger  President Donald Trump on Sunday morning tweeted that passengers traveling from high risk countries will be screened prior to boarding as well as when they arrive to the U.S. The administration on Saturday expanded travel restrictions against Iran and raised an advisory that Americans refrain from visiting regions of Italy and South Korea impacted by the coronavirus. "In addition to screening travelers 'prior to boarding' from certain designated high risk countries, or areas within those countries, they will also be screened when they arrive in America," Trump wrote on Twitter. -- Newburger  Australia, Thailand and the U.S. all reported their first deaths from the coronavirus over the weekend as the outbreak continues to stretch across the globe.  In the U.S., a man in his 50s with underlying health conditions died in Washington state. There was no evidence that he got the infection through travel or contact with another infected person, raising fears over a local community spread within the U.S.  In Thailand, a 35-year-old man who was also sick from dengue fever died of the coronavirus. Thailand has reported a total of 42 cases.  A 78-year-old man also died of the virus in Australia on Sunday. He was one of the evacuated passengers on the Diamond Princess cruise ship quarantined off Japan. Australia has confirmed a total of 26 cases.  "We still need to make the point very clear that there isn't community spread within Australia," said Andrew Robertson, chief health officer at the Western Australia Department of Health. "This very tragic case is still related to the Diamond Princess. The public shouldn't be panicking at this stage." -- Newburger  Iran's death toll from the coronavirus hit 54 on Sunday, its health ministry said, just days after the Iranian government denied 50 deaths from the virus reported by a lawmaker in the city of Qom, the center of the country's outbreak. Based on the number of fatalities, health experts believe the number of infected people must be higher than what the government is reporting. -- Turak, Kemp Market panic over the fast-spreading new coronavirus is uncalled for, the World Health Organization's director-general said Sunday as governments around the world rush to contain its spread. "Global markets … should calm down and try to see the reality," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told CNBC's Hadley Gamble during a panel discussion at the King Salman Humanitarian Aid Center's International Humanitarian Forum in Riyadh. "We need to continue to be rational. Irrationality doesn't help. We need to deal with the facts." The comments come after global stocks were slammed in their worst week since the 2008 financial crisis. The Dow Jones plunged a whopping 3,500 points across the week, more than 12%, its largest weekly point loss ever and biggest percentage drop in 12 years. -- Turak  -- CNBC's Natasha Turak, Ted Kemp, Matt Clinch, Lauren Thomas, Maggie Fitzgerald and Leslie Josephs contributed reporting Correction: A previous version of this story misstated the number of coronavirus cases in the U.S.