Rep. Matt GaetzMatthew (Matt) GaetzGaetz wears gas mask on House floor during vote on bill to fight coronavirus Bipartisan lawmakers ask NIH for information on 'disturbing' studies on monkeys The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden looks to South Carolina to turn around campaign MORE (R-Fla.) on Wednesday wore a gas mask on the House floor during a vote on an emergency funding bill to fight the spread of the novel coronavirus known as COVID-19. “Reviewing the coronavirus supplemental appropriation and preparing to go vote,” Gaetz tweeted ahead of the vote, including a photo of himself wearing the mask. Reviewing the coronavirus supplemental appropriation and preparing to go vote. pic.twitter.com/wjJ4YY4VZz  Some scenes from the floor courtesy of a GOP lawmaker. pic.twitter.com/Gmq0xQJXeZ  Gaetz initially maintained that he was within his rights to wear the device on the House floor despite the sergeant-at-arms requesting that he remove it in the chamber. "There are provisions in the House rules that permit medically necessary headgear," Gaetz said after walking off the floor. Gaetz later acknowledged in a statement to The Hill that "House rules do not explicitly allow medical headgear even at this time of heightened concern," adding, "This is a rule that should be revisited." The moment raised eyebrows on Twitter. Matt Gaetz, our most normal member of Congress, is wearing a full-on gas mask on the House floor right now, being super normal Rep. Gaetz is wearing a legit gas mask — like the one Bane wore in Batman, not just a paper one — on the House floor right now.  Rep. Matt Gaetz just sitting on the House floor, wearing a gas mask. #Coronvirus pic.twitter.com/XDF5Xt3wBs   You won’t believe the shoes Matt Gaetz is wearing today. #FloridaMan pic.twitter.com/VmFN7t0fjq  During an animated conversation with Rep. Ruben GallegoRuben GallegoGaetz wears gas mask on House floor during vote on bill to fight coronavirus Native American leader denounces destruction of sacred sites for border wall construction One lawmaker gets engaged, another married around Valentine's Day MORE, the Arizona Democrat informed Gaetz he was wearing the mask incorrectly. "Look, bipartisanship," Gallego said of his decision to help his GOP colleague. "Gallego told me how. He knows how because he's a Marine," Gaetz said, confirming he had since adjusted the device. "He showed me how you wear it correctly." Rep. Paul MitchellPaul MitchellGaetz wears gas mask on House floor during vote on bill to fight coronavirus Overnight Health Care — Presented by Partnership for America's Health Care Future — House to condemn Trump plan for Medicaid block grants | Chinese doctor who warned of coronavirus dies | CDC ships coronavirus tests GOP lawmaker shreds Democratic resolution on House floor MORE (R-Mich.) at one point jokingly sat next to Gaetz and covered his air vent.  "Paul Mitchell did cover the air intake hole only momentarily," Gaetz said. "Look, members of Congress are human petri dishes. We fly through the dirtiest airports. We touch everyone we meet. If anyone's gonna get coronavirus, it's gonna be the people on that floor, so I want to be ready. When asked if he would continue to wear the mask in the chamber in the coming days, Gaetz told reporters, "Great question." The Florida Republican joined other lawmakers on Wednesday in voting to approve an $8.3 billion emergency funding bill to battle the spread of coronavirus, the first major step by Congress to address the growing number of cases and deaths in the U.S. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 80 cases have been reported in the U.S. and nine deaths. The total does not include the more than 40 people who contracted the virus on a cruise ship weeks ago. The Wednesday vote also comes as the Trump administration continues to face mounting pressure from lawmakers and the public to increase efforts to prevent the virus from taking a stronghold in the country. Updated: 6:05 p.m.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.