President Donald Trump on Monday mocked Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar for dropping out of the Democratic presidential race and endorsing Joe Biden, comparing their moves to the accusations of collusion with foreign governments that have marred his presidency. “It sounds like they made a deal. They both supported Sleepy Joe. You know why? Quid pro quo!” Trump said during a rally in Charlotte, N.C. “Impeach them! They should be impeached!” Buttigieg dropped out of the race on Sunday and Klobuchar on Monday, both announcing that they would throw their support behind Biden. Trump’s remarks reflected the charges levied against him of a quid pro quo with the Ukrainian government to help in the 2020 election. Trump was impeached, but later acquitted, after requesting that the Ukrainian president launch a public investigation into the Biden family. Insulting his Democratic rivals formed the bulk of Trump’s rally, which came on the eve of the Super Tuesday elections in which 14 states, including North Carolina, will vote. The president laid into Biden, calling him one of his favorite insults, “Sleepy Joe,” and saying that the former vice president would be “put in a home” if he were to win the election, leaving “super left radical” staffers to run his administration. He also mocked Biden for misspeaking at past campaign events, including accidentally calling this week’s collection of primaries “Super Thursday.” The president asserted, without evidence, that the Democratic primaries were “rigged against Crazy Bernie” — referring to Bernie Sanders — and he also spent time mocking Elizabeth Warren for her past claims of Native American heritage. Shifting from the campaign, Trump also used the rally to celebrate a new peace agreement between the United States and the Taliban, which created a framework to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan. American and Taliban negotiators on Saturday signed the agreement, which calls for U.S. forces to fully leave the country in 14 months if the Taliban holds up to their conditions of the agreement. The president has long advocated pulling back from conflicts in Afghanistan and the Middle East, and Trump’s celebratory language reflected his America-first campaign mantra. He argued that the U.S. military should be kept at home rather than abroad and that “we’re not law enforcement” for the world. “American troops cannot be the policemen for the world or to create democracy in other nations that frankly probably don’t want it,” he told the crowd at Bojangles’ Coliseum in Charlotte. “The job of the American military is to secure and defend our country. We can finally begin to bring our amazing troops back home. After years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation and taking care of our citizens.” Trump cast the deal in the terms of his strong-borders platform, declaring that terrorism should be fought by keeping the borders secure. “We must keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country!” he said. The president also praised his administration for its response to the threat from a spreading coronavirus epidemic. He defended closing U.S. borders to foreign nationals from China and said his administration was working closely with pharmaceutical companies to manufacture preventative measures for the virus — though he did not specify what that could look like. Trump framed the coronavirus as an issue of border security as well, saying that those who criticized his decision to close borders to certain countries were “fringe globalists” who cared more about keeping borders open than protecting the country from infection. The president’s tone was a triumphant one, and he spoke with confidence about winning North Carolina this year, as he did in 2016. The audience matched his enthusiasm, frequently yelling out its support for the president as he listed his administration’s actions. “We are kicking ass, let me tell ya,” Trump declared.