The House Democrats’ campaign arm is targeting seven House Republicans in ads over the Trump administration’s response to coronavirus and the affordability of a potential vaccine. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee announced Monday the new ads will appear on Facebook in English and Spanish.  The ads are centered on Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar’s comments last week on the affordability of a coronavirus vaccine.  “The Trump administration would rather pad the pockets of drug manufacturers than provide access to an affordable coronavirus vaccine,” text of the 25-second ad reads. The ad cites Azar's comments that “we can’t control that price because we need the private sector” at a congressional hearing last week.  The ad then asks if the “Washington Republican” it's targeting agrees with Azar, swapping out the name of the member in each ad.  Versions of the ad will run in districts for Reps. Jeff Van DrewJeff Van DrewDCCC targets House GOP members over Trump administration response to coronavirus Ginsburg expresses hope amid a Senate she thinks is 'divided sharply' Democrats slam GOP on drug prices in bilingual digital ads MORE (N.J.), who switched from a Democrat to a Republican amid last year’s House impeachment process, Ross SpanoVincent (Ross) Ross SpanoDCCC targets House GOP members over Trump administration response to coronavirus Overnight Health Care — Presented by Partnership for America's Health Care Future — Democrats seek to preempt Trump message on health care | E-cigarette executives set for grilling | Dems urge emergency funding for coronavirus Democrats slam GOP on drug prices in bilingual digital ads MORE (Fla.), Vern BuchananVernon Gale BuchananMORE (Fla.), Jaime Herrera-Beutler (Wash.), David SchweikertDavid SchweikertDCCC targets House GOP members over Trump administration response to coronavirus Overnight Health Care — Presented by Partnership for America's Health Care Future — Democrats seek to preempt Trump message on health care | E-cigarette executives set for grilling | Dems urge emergency funding for coronavirus Democrats slam GOP on drug prices in bilingual digital ads MORE (Ariz.), Ann WagnerAnn Louise WagnerDCCC targets House GOP members over Trump administration response to coronavirus Overnight Health Care — Presented by Partnership for America's Health Care Future — Democrats seek to preempt Trump message on health care | E-cigarette executives set for grilling | Dems urge emergency funding for coronavirus Democrats slam GOP on drug prices in bilingual digital ads MORE (Mo.) and Don YoungDonald (Don) Edwin YoungDCCC targets House GOP members over Trump administration response to coronavirus Impeachment demonstrates dire need for term limits House approves pro-union labor bill MORE (Alaska).  Spanish ads will run in districts led by Spano, Buchanan and Schweikert. Azar’s comments came in response to a question from Rep. Jan SchakowskyJanice (Jan) Danoff SchakowskyHillicon Valley: Lawmakers seek 5G rivals to Huawei | Amazon, eBay grilled over online counterfeits | Judge tosses Gabbard lawsuit against Google | GOP senator introduces bill banning TikTok on government devices Lawmakers grill Amazon, eBay executives over online counterfeits DCCC targets House GOP members over Trump administration response to coronavirus MORE (D-Ill.), who asked if a coronavirus vaccine will “for sure be affordable for anyone who needs it.”  “We would want to ensure that we work to make it affordable, but we can’t control that price because we need the private sector to invest,” Azar responded at the hearing.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.