New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) on Wednesday announced four more coronavirus cases, bringing the state's total to six confirmed patients. The virus spread from a Westchester County attorney to his wife, 20-year-old son, 14-year-old daughter and neighbor who drove him to the hospital, Cuomo said at a press conference. Yeshiva University and the Salanter Akiba Riverdale Academy and High School, where his son and daughter attend school, respectively, were closed Wednesday. Yeshiva University released a statement Wednesday saying it “unfortunately received news” that a male student tested positive for the coronavirus. Classes were subsequently canceled on Wilf Campus, although dormitories and food services will remain open, the school said. “This precautionary step will allow us to work with city agencies and other professionals to best prepare our campus and ensure the uncompromised safety of our students, faculty and staff,” the university said. Cuomo also announced that students from the State University of New York and the City University of New York who are abroad in China, South Korea, Japan, Iran and Italy will return to the U.S. and be quarantined for 14 days. He also cautioned people not to overreact to the virus spread. “We have an epidemic caused by a coronavirus, but we have a pandemic that is caused by fear,” he said. “By definition the more you test the more people you will find who test positive." The governor also mentioned “good news” — that people in Buffalo who went to Italy, and others in Oneida County, tested negative for the coronavirus. The husband of the health care worker who traveled to Iran and was the first confirmed coronavirus victim also tested negative. The U.S. has recorded more than 100 coronavirus cases and nine deaths. All of the fatalities have occurred in Washington state. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.