Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief of Vogue, is working from home in efforts to self-quarantine after returning from Milan Fashion Week, according to the New York Post. She is not showing any symptoms but is taking precautionary measures due to the spread of the coronavirus in Italy, a spokesman told the Post. Milan is the largest city in Lombardy, the region which has been hardest hit by a coronavirus outbreak that has killed 79 people and infected 2,263 in Italy, according to The Local. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Anna Wintour, the legendary editor-in-chief of US Vogue magazine, has self-isolated and is working from home after returning from Milan Fashion Week, according to the New York Post. The Condé Nast artistic director is not showing any sign of having the coronavirus, according to a spokesman for Vogue owners Condé Nast, who spoke to the Post.Instead, she is one of several editors being "overly cautious" after visiting Milan, a global fashion capital, but also located in one of the regions worst-hit by the coronavirus outbreak in Italy.Milan, where the Fashion Week ran until February 24, is the largest city in Lombardy, where the majority of Italy's 2,263 coronavirus cases are clustered, according to Italy's edition of The Local. 







79 people in Italy have died of the coronavirus so far, The Local said.


Lombardy is scrambling to adapt its regional healthcare system to tackle the coronavirus, but experiencing significant trouble, Business Insider's Sarah Al-Arshani reported.Other fashion figures self-isolating following Milan Fashion Week are Elle's editor-in-chief Nina Garcia, Harper's Bazaar publisher Carol Smith, Aya Kanai, Marie Claire's top editor, and InStyle editor-in-chief Laura Brown, reported the New York Post.None have are said to have shown any symptoms. Troy Young, president of Hearst, which publishes Elle, told the New York Post that the company is being "overly cautious."Read the full story at the New York Post. 


Read more:A fashion brand showcased a range of designer face masks at Paris Fashion Week amid the global spread of coronavirusTwo Amazon employees in Italy have contracted the coronavirusBefore-and-after photos show how fear of the coronavirus has emptied out Europe's biggest tourist attractionsAnna Wintour's strategy for using email to get people to confront issues sounds terrifying. And effective.