Happy Tuesday and welcome back to On The Money, where we could really use a burger right now. I'm Sylvan Lane, and here's your nightly guide to everything affecting your bills, bank account and bottom line. See something I missed? Let me know at slane@thehill.com or tweet me @SylvanLane. And if you like your newsletter, you can subscribe to it here: http://bit.ly/1NxxW2N. Write us with tips, suggestions and news: slane@thehill.com, njagoda@thehill.com and nelis@thehill.com. Follow us on Twitter: @SylvanLane, @NJagoda and @NivElis.   THE BIG DEAL--Trump officials pressed on economic response to coronavirus: The Trump administration is facing growing calls to detail how it will protect the economy as worries grow about the impact of the global coronavirus outbreak. "I find it concerning, because this does have echoes of the 2008 Great Recession," said Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.). Mnuchin said that the coronavirus is "very different" from the 2008 financial crisis. "The good news here is there will be an end in sight," he said, adding that he has confidence that health professionals will develop treatments and vaccines for the virus. The Hill's Naomi Jagoda and I have more on hearing here. And I've got more on the Fed's emergency rate cut and Wall Street's reaction up ahead.   Read more:    ON TAP TOMORROW   LEADING THE DAY Fed cuts interest rates by half a percentage point amid coronavirus fears: The Federal Reserve on Tuesday cut interest rates amid concern about the potential economic toll of the coronavirus outbreak. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which sets Fed interest rates, announced it would cut its baseline rate range by 0.5 percentage points to a 1 to 1.25 percent spread. Even so, analysts have questioned whether a Fed rate cut could help negate the damage of widespread supply disruption caused by the outbreak and unique panic stirred by a health scare.   Powell's take: "The virus and the measures that are being taken to contain it will surely weigh on economic activity both here and abroad for some time," Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a Tuesday press conference, citing the early toll of the disease on the travel, tourism and manufacturing industries. "In response, we have eased the stance of monetary policy to provide some more support to the economy," he said. Powell added, "We don't think we have all the answers, but we do believe that our action will provide a meaningful boost to the economy."   Not enough for Trump : The Fed's cut failed to quell President Trump's long-running pressure for lower interest rates, which has intensified as stocks plummet. "The Federal Reserve is cutting but must further ease and, most importantly, come into line with other countries/competitors. We are not playing on a level field. Not fair to USA. It is finally time for the Federal Reserve to LEAD. More easing and cutting!" Trump tweeted shortly after the Fed's announcement.   And stocks still plummet: Despite Wall Street's bet panning out, The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 786 points, a 2.9 percent loss, while the S&P 500 Index and Nasdaq Composite sunk 2.8 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Tuesday's losses cut more than half the gains from a massive Monday rally that saw all three major indexes rise more than 4.5 percent each.   GOOD TO KNOW   ODDS AND ENDS View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.