Former healthcare executive and “Medicare for All” advocate Wendell Potter said Monday Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) has “many potential” running mates to choose from that back the progressive candidate's signature healthcare proposal.  Potter said in addition to existing supporters of Medicare for All, others could shift to support the universal healthcare proposal.  Sanders is currently seen as the front-runner heading into Super Tuesday after wins in New Hampshire and Nevada and a virtual tie in Iowa. “To be honest with you, I think some [running mates] could be persuaded to support this policy,” Potter said in an interview with the Hill.TV’s “Rising.”  “I do think also there are many candidates out there many potential candidates… who also support this policy change,” he added.  Sanders told the San Francisco Chronicle in an interview Sunday he won’t choose a running mate who doesn’t support his single-payer health care proposal.  Potter told the “Rising” hosts he wasn’t surprised by Sanders’s comments.  “Medicare for all has become really central to his campaign,” Potter said.  “He has never wavered from that commitment, so I think he wants to make sure that whoever he picks as his running mate supports that policy as much as he does,” he added.  Sanders is one of two candidates remaining in the race, along with Sen. Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth Ann Warren Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren The Hill's Campaign Report: Biden riding wave of momentum after stunning Super Tuesday Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden MORE (D-Mass.), backing a Medicare For All plan.  His moderate rivals, mainly former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE, have argued Sanders has not fully explained how he would cover the cost of the proposal and claim the progressive plan could drive away moderate voters.  Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.