House Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiCongressional leaders downplay possibility of Capitol closing due to coronavirus Ocasio-Cortez says candidate she backed in Texas Democratic primary 'came closer than anyone imagined' Henry Cuellar fends off Democratic challenger in Texas House primary MORE (D-Calif.) urged California voters to remain in line amid reports of long lines at the polls for the Golden State’s Super Tuesday primary. “Stay in line, friends. Your vote is imperative,” Pelosi tweeted Tuesday evening ahead of the polls closing in California.  Stay in line, friends. Your vote is imperative. https://t.co/KDJjT3W1sP  Pelosi sent the tweet amid reports of hours-long wait times at UCLA’s single campus voting center, with Sophia Armen, a campus organizer for Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE’s (I-Vt.) campaign, saying she had seen students walk away from the line.  Update: there are now 3 hour waits at the ONE voting center on campus at UCLAYes only one at UCLA with 40k studentsAnd the other two a 15 min walk w/3 hour wait & Now 4 hour wait time Students are genuinely walk away in line, I’m watching them#SuperTuesday #LosAngeles  Rafael Návar, Sanders's state director in California, said earlier in the afternoon that only nine of the voting center's 39 machines were functioning.  Hey @LACountyRRCC, the vote center at @UCLA has only 9 machines working out of 39. Lines are almost 2 hours long for students who need to go to class. Please resolve this ASAP to ensure all students are able to vote. @CASOSvote #Californiaprimary2020 @UPTECWA  The Hill has reached out to the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk's office for comment. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.