Massachusetts Rep. Joe KennedyJoseph (Joe) Patrick Kennedy5 states to watch on Super Tuesday The Hill's Campaign Report: Centrists rush behind Biden to stop Sanders Democratic candidates gear up for a dramatic Super Tuesday MORE (D) holds a six-point lead over longtime incumbent Sen. Ed MarkeyEdward (Ed) John MarkeyMarkey questions Amazon on price gouging due to coronavirus Hillicon Valley: Democrats in talks to bridge surveillance divide | DHS confident in Super Tuesday election security | State pledges M cyber help to Ukraine | Facebook skipping SXSW amid coronavirus Markey presses facial recognition company over Middle Eastern marketing, potential child privacy violations MORE (D) in the Bay State's Democratic Senate primary, according to a Suffolk University/WBZ/Boston Globe survey released on Sunday.  Forty-two percent of voters said they supported Kennedy, while 36 percent backed Markey in the poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage points.  Around 28 percent of voters said they were "undecided" on if they believed Markey should be reelected, while 19 percent said they were "undecided" on the senator's job performance.   A University of Massachusetts-Lowell survey released earlier this month also showed a tighter race, with Kennedy polling at 35 percent support, while Markey came in with 34 percent support. That poll's margin of error was plus or minus 6.1 percentage points.  Kennedy, the grandson of former Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, is running for the seat which was once held by his great-uncles former President John F. Kennedy and former Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.).  The 39-year-old progressive lawmaker is promising to bring generational change and a fresh perspective to the Senate as Washington remains divided on partisan lines. Kennedy has touted his positions on a number of issues, including immigration and health care, in the primary.  Meanwhile, Markey, 73, is relying on his experience in Washington, touting a long list of achievements including co-authoring the Green New Deal.  The poll was conducted on February 26-28 among 500 likely voters in the Democratic primary. The margin of error is plus or minus 4.4 percentage points.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.