President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE said Tuesday that he would visit Tennessee on Friday following a deadly string of tornadoes that authorities said killed at least 19 people in the state. “Before I begin, I want to send my warm wishes to the great people of Tennessee in the wake of the horrible and very vicious tornado that killed at least 19 people and injured many more,” Trump said in the outset of remarks at the National Association of Counties Legislative Conference on Tuesday. Trump said that his administration is working with Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee (R) and other state officials “to make sure that everything is done properly” and noted that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is already on the ground in the state helping with recovery efforts. “FEMA is already on the ground and I’ll be going there on Friday,” Trump said. “Our hearts are full of sorrow for the lives that were lost.”  The White House said later Tuesday that Trump spoke by phone with Lee regarding the severe weather in the state and that the president planned to tour some of the damage during Friday's visit. "The Governor told the President that Tennessee looks forward to having him in the State on Friday to tour some of the damage and offer support to Tennesseans," White House deputy press secretary Judd Deere said in a statement. State authorities have said that at least 19 people were killed after deadly storms ripped through middle Tennessee, including Nashville, early Tuesday. Lee declared a state of emergency in the wake of the storms. “It’s a vicious thing, those tornadoes, I’ve seen many of them over a three-year period and I’ve gotten to see the results and they are vicious. If you’re in their path, bad things happen,” Trump continued. He added that he and his administration “send our love and our prayers of the nation to every family that was affected.” “We will get there and we will recover and we will rebuild and we will help them,” Trump told the crowd at the conference, which was being held at the Washington Hilton in the nation’s capital. Trump is also expected to visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention headquarters in Atlanta on Friday amid continued efforts to respond to the coronavirus.  --This report was updated at 2:50 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.