Hello, and welcome to another edition of The Monitor, WIRED’s entertainment news roundup. Today we've got lots of Dude News, from James Bond to The Invisible Man to Candyman. Let's get going. The founders of some of the most popular James Bond fan sites are asking the studios behind No Time to Die to push back the 25th Bond film’s release date over fears the new coronavirus will impact attendance. The film is set to open worldwide following its March 31 premiere, but James Page, cofounder of MI6-HQ, and David Leigh, founder of the James Bond Dossier, want producers Eon and distributors MGM and Universal to “put public health above marketing release schedules and the cost of canceling publicity events.” Since many countries are asking residents to avoid large public gatherings to avoid spreading the coronavirus, they see a delay as the best option for fans and the film’s box office. “With a month to go before No Time to Die opens worldwide, community spread of the virus is likely to be peaking in the United States,” they wrote in an open letter. “There is a significant chance that cinemas will be closed, or their attendance severely reduced, by early April. Even if there are no legal restrictions on cinemas being open, to quote M in Skyfall, 'How safe do you feel?'" He may be translucent, but a lot of people saw The Invisible Man this weekend. The latest horror flick from Blumhouse nabbed $29 million at the domestic box office and $20.2 internationally for a nearly $50 million global haul. The flick, based on the H. G. Wells novel, stars Elisabeth Moss, was directed by Leigh Whanell, and has a 92 percent score on Rotten Tomatoes. If your of a certain age, it’s very likely your first memory of Carmen Sandiego is as a globe-trotting master thief in computer games in the 1980s. She’s no longer pulling off grand larceny in Netflix’s animated series, but the show is giving a new nod to her past. In Carmen Sandiego: To Steal or Not to Steal, Carmen has to team up with some of her old robber cohorts to rescue two of her friends. Viewers, or, well, players, will get the chance to see Carmen’s thoughts and choose which routes she takes. The special drops March 10. If we post it two more times, the movie will appear, right? https://twitter.com/CandymanMovie/status/1233059280695238657