This story was delivered to Business Insider Intelligence Fintech Pro subscribers earlier this morning.To get this story plus others to your inbox each day, hours before they're published on Business Insider, click here.The US-based commission-free trading app was down on Monday due to technical problems that lasted most of the trading day and were not sorted before the market close, according to CNBC.






 

Robinhood said at the time that it was working on a fix to resolve the system-wide outage as soon as possible, and the issue was resolved after 17 hours. Of note, the platform was also down earlier yesterday morning.The startup, which was last valued at $7.6 billion when it raised $323 million in July 2019, wasn't the only brokerage to face issues recently: Fidelity and Charles Schwab both had technical difficulties amid last week's coronavirus selloff, while some of TD Ameritrade's clients also saw slowed-down services.The outage is the latest in a spate of negative news surrounding Robinhood's services, and it emphasizes how important consistent service is to sustaining customer satisfaction.Robinhood has faced technical and regulatory challenges in recent years. In 2018, it attempted to launch a checking and savings accounts with a 3% interest rate, but it had to quickly rebrand the service due to regulatory concerns about consumer money not being protected.In November 2019, issues with its app gave users trading leverage in excess of the normal amounts they should be allowed to borrow. And a month later, the startup was hit with a $1.25 million fine by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority for allegedly not giving users the best prices available for a time in 2016 and 2017.But Monday's service interruption deals a particularly strong blow to Robinhood as it coincided with increased trading volumes and a significant rebound of the stock market, following the worst week for stocks since the financial crisis. The outage meant that users couldn't access the platform to make the trades they wanted, and this led many to take to social media to express their discontent with Robinhood. A Twitter account, dubbed Robinhood Class Action, has been formed which is working to build a case against the startup. The blowback illustrates how critical it is for the startup to ensure that users don't experience any service irregularities, especially in times of increased market volume.While Robinhood has secured a large user base, competition in the brokerage space is increasing, and trust-diminishing episodes like this latest outage could cause Robinhood to lose key ground. The startup has welcomed over 10 million users since being founded in 2013 and was a pioneer in offering commission-free stock trading.But last year, a fee war was sparked in the US — likely because startups like Robinhood have changed the status quo of the trading industry with their cheap services — as a number of legacy brokerages, including Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade, Fidelity, and E-Trade dropped fees associated with stock trading. With this trend intensifying in the industry, Robinhood has already lost parts of its competitive edge.And while the startup has been busy launching new features to set itself apart from the rest of the industry, including Profiles that let users see analytics about their portfolio, negative news about the consistency of its service could make some users lose trust in the platform and take their investments elsewhere. To avoid future outages, Robinhood needs to focus on maintaining its platform, and should potentially put expansion plans to new countries, including the UK, on the back burner.Want to read more stories like this one? Here's how to get access: Sign up for Fintech Pro, Business Insider Intelligence's expert product suite tailored for today's (and tomorrow's) decision-makers in the financial services industry, delivered to your inbox 6x a week. >> Get StartedCheck to see if you already have access to Business Insider Intelligence through your company, or inquire about access if you don't. >> Check If You Have Enterprise AccessExplore related topics in more depth. >> Visit Our Report StoreCurrent subscribers can log in to read the briefing here.