A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. "The establishment consolidated around one person," Chuck Rocha told Hill.TV. He said Biden got momentum from former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE and Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) dropping their White House bids shortly before Super Tuesday. "Those voters who were with Pete, those voters who were with Amy...there's no way to gauge that kind of consolidation within 48 hours of an election," Rocha added. Buttigieg and Klobuchar both endorsed Biden before the polls opened on Tuesday, giving him a much-needed boost with moderate voters. Coming off a decisive victory in Saturday's South Carolina primary, Biden carried that momentum into Super Tuesday, winning the majority of the 14 state contests and notching a few upsets in states like Massachusetts and Minnesota. Biden was leading Sanders in the delegate count as of 2:20 p.m. ET on Wednesday. Rocha said that with Super Tuesday data in hand, the Sanders campaign will be able to respond accordingly. Idaho, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota and Washington state all have their primaries on Tuesday. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.