If the coronavirus outbreak in the US devolves into a pandemic, medical workers will require 3.5 billion face masks over a year, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.Right now, the national emergency stockpile holds 12 million N95 respirator masks and 30 million surgical face masks— so roughly 1% of what's needed.Testifying before the Senate Health Committee on Tuesday, HHS Assistant Secretary Robert Kadlec said the US has almost 10% of the inventory it needs. The group was corrected by CNBC. On Wednesday, US lawmakers reached an $8 billion deal to fight COVID-19. Part of that money will help the HHS buy 500 million N95 respirators and face masks.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Healthcare workers will need 3.5 billion face masks if the coronavirus outbreak in the United States hits pandemic proportions, the Department of Health and Human Services said on Wednesday.Currently, however, the national emergency stockpile comprises an estimated 12 million N95 respirator masks and 30 million surgical face masks, CNBC reported. That's about 1% of what's required.The HHS was forced to issue a clarification after Assistant Secretary Robert Kadlec erred while testifying before the Senate Health Committee on Tuesday. The flub occurred when Kadlec was answering Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), CNBC said."What percent of what would be needed by medical professionals if we were to have a full-blown pandemic?" Romney asked.


"If it were to be a severe event, we would need 3.5 billion N95 respirator masks. We have about 35 million," Kadlec responded. Romney followed up by asking, "So, about 10%?""Ten percent," Kadlec agreed, "and we're actively working on that."







As of Wednesday, almost 95,000 people have been infected by the coronavirus, which has also killed more than 3,200 people. Mainland China, where the virus originated late last year, is home to over 80,000 COVID-19 patients. In the US, 80 people have tested positive for the illness and 11 have died.On Wednesday, House and Senate leaders reached a bipartisan decision to shell out emergency funding worth $8.3 billion to fight the mounting COVID-19 crisis in the US. HHS plans to use some of the newly approved funding to buy about 500 million N95 respirators and face masks over the next 18 months, a spokesperson said to CNBC.


House Speaker Nancy Pelosi tweeted in favor of the deal, saying US leaders can now "deliver the coordinated, whole-of-government response needed to keep Americans safe."—Nancy Pelosi (@SpeakerPelosi) March 4, 2020—Nancy Pelosi (@SpeakerPelosi) March 4, 2020The World Health Organization is urging medical supply manufacturers to step up production by 40% as the coronavirus continues its march across the globe, according to CNBC."Supplies are rapidly depleting," Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a news conference. "WHO estimates that each month 89 million medical masks will be required for the COVID-19 response, 76 million examination gloves, and 1.6 million goggles."Wednesday's update is a sharp increase from HHS Secretary Alex Azar's comments on February 26 claiming the US needed 300 million masks to adequately protect its healthcare workers.N95 respirators are not the most effective way for people to protect themselves from the infection because the masks can't fully filter out the airborne coronavirus germs. However, doctors and nurses are advised to use them.


Read more:Coronavirus live updates: More than 95,000 people have been infected and more than 3,250 have died. The US has reported 11 deaths. Here's everything we know.The flu and the new coronavirus have similar symptoms, but the coronavirus is far deadlier — here's how the 2 compareA new study of IT pros finds that over half of healthcare organizations have been targeted by cyberattack, even as coronavirus continues to spreadPaid sick leave could help prevent the spread of coronavirus — but 18 states have barred local governments from enacting it