Trader Joe's is changing its sick-leave policy during the coronavirus outbreak to encourage workers to stay home if they feel ill, according to a memo viewed by Business Insider.The grocery chain will allow sick workers to get reimbursed for their time off. "If you develop a fever and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or shortness of breath, call your health-care provider right away," the memo states. "We are encouraging Crew who are exhibiting any of the above symptoms to see a medical provider and not come to work." Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Trader Joe's is allowing sick workers to get reimbursed for their time off, in an effort to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The grocery chain is encouraging employees who have symptoms or do not feel well to stay home until they have been symptom-free for at least 24 hours, according to a memo viewed by Business Insider."Since we want to reinforce this guideline, through April 15, your Captain has discretion to approve a reimbursement of AR [absence reserve, or sick leave and paid time off] for Crew Members who are unable to work due to respiratory illness," the memo reads. "Crew Members that are required to miss more than a full calendar week (7-day period) of work due to respiratory illness will have their personal situation reviewed by HR." The memo instructs workers to alert a Captain (Trader Joe's term for manager) or Mates (coworkers) if they become sick during the workday, in order to be sent home immediately. Workers were instructed to familiarize themselves with symptoms of "many cold, flu, and other viruses (including COVID-19)," such as coughing, sneezing, fever, and shortness of breath."If you develop a fever and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or shortness of breath, call your health-care provider right away," the memo states. "We are encouraging Crew who are exhibiting any of the above symptoms to see a medical provider and not come to work." 


Company limitations on taking sick leave could result in people reporting to work with symptoms, to avoid punishment or lack of payment. By giving workers more freedom to take time off, Trader Joe's new policy could help prevent the spread of illness among workers, as well as shoppers. One Trader Joe's worker expressed concern to Business Insider regarding the fact that absence reserve will only be reimbursed at the manager's discretion. The worker was granted anonymity in order to speak frankly about the situation, but their identity was confirmed by Business Insider. It also, potentially, signals to worried Trader Joe's customers that the chain is being more proactive in preventing the spread of the illness than competitors."For new or part-time crew members who don't qualify for health insurance, there's nothing about them covering healthcare expenses," the employee said. "So, the risk is still really high and we still just have to hope none of us get sick."Trader Joe's did not respond to Business Insider's inquiry on whether it will cover health care costs for part-time or new employees seeking medical attention. The memo instructs workers on personal hygiene, telling them to cover a cough or sneeze with a tissue or elbow, avoid touching their faces, and frequently and properly wash their hands. Workers have been instructed to continue routine cleaning, with no additional disinfection at this point. 


Trader Joe's is also tweaking its free sample practices, with workers serving samples directly to customers and using a fork or spoon so customers do not have to use their hands to eat the sample. Service workers are at riskPeople working in the service industry are some of the jobs most at risk during the coronavirus outbreak, according to a Business Insider analysis of US Labor Department data.According to Marissa Baker, an assistant professor at the University of Washington Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences department, hourly workers and employees who cannot work from home will face difficult decisions that could put them in danger."Do I stay home if I feel ill, or go into work so I can have a paycheck? What do I do if my child's school is closed, and I can't afford to stay off work?" Baker said.Many retailers, including Target, are not offering workers additional sick leave despite coronavirus concerns. Adam Ryan, the liaison for the employee activist group Target Workers Unite and a current employee at a store in Christiansburg, Virginia, recently told Business Insider's Shoshy Ciment that he feels too worried to take an unpaid sick day.


"Even missing one day has a huge impact," Ryan said, regarding how he does not get paid time off or paid sick time.