When you buy through our links, we may earn money from our affiliate partners. Learn more.






 

Emergencies can happen at any time, so it's imperative to have an at-home emergency kit ready should disaster strike. The American Red Cross has compiled emergency preparedness information for the general public, and experts have suggested creating a stationary and mobile emergency kit for your home.We studied the Red Cross' list of supplies and found recommended items you should include in your very own at-home emergency kit.You can also check out our full guides to the best ready-made emergency kits and the best first aid kits you can buy.Due to fears of coronavirus, many of these products are quickly selling out or appearing at prices well above market retail. We're doing our best to keep this guide updated with in-stock purchase links.When an emergency strikes, it's almost always unexpected, whether it's an earthquake, hurricane, a family member falling ill, losing power for multiple days, or something else. We don't always immediately know what to do, but it's wise to have the supplies readily available should you ever find yourself in the midst of an urgent situation.Creating a personalized at-home emergency kit isn't difficult if you know what to put it in. All you need to do is grab a large tub (like this one or this one) and fill it with basic necessities like a first aid kit, water, flashlight, and any medical supplies that are specific to your needs, or your family and pet's needs. You could even create multiple bins based on the supplies inside (e.g., food bin, medical bin, hardware bin). The American Red Cross suggests creating two kits: one that's meant for use at home if you're required to stay put, and an emergency kit that's on-the-go ready should you need to mobilize. How you choose to set up your at-home emergency kit is up to you, but we've rounded up a list of basic items you might want to include, based on the American Red Cross' emergency preparedness website.Here are 15 items to include in your at-home emergency kit:













A hand-crank/solar-powered NOAA radio and charging device










 
RunningSnail Emergency Solar Crank Radio, available on Amazon for $35.90This multi-use radio, flashlight, and SOS alarm is a must-have emergency kit item. No matter the situation, this radio will work. It can be charged four different ways: solar, hand crank, AAA batteries (3), and 2,000mAh power bank. Not only do you have access to AM/FM radio, but you have access to NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) emergency broadcasts. On top of that, the RunningSnail radio has a USB port for device charging.





A battery-free flashlight










 
VADIV Hand Crank Flashlight, available on Amazon for $10.99No batteries are needed with this three-LED bulb flashlight that's powered by solar energy and hand-crank technology. One minute of cranking will get you 10 minutes of light, so you'll need to crank for six minutes for a full hour of power. Additionally, the VADIV flashlight has a built-in carabiner clip, so you can attach it to the outside of a backpack for easy access and solar charging.

 






A set of weather-resistant blankets










 
Swiss Safe Emergency Mylar Thermal Blankets (4-pack), available on Amazon for $17.99These Mylar thermal blankets are designed to retain to up 90% of body heat and are waterproof, windproof, and moisture-proof. They can also be converted into emergency shelter tents if need be. Swiss Safe emergency blankets are also extremely lightweight, so they're perfect for your mobile emergency kit.





A first aid kit










 
First Aid Only FAO-442 All-Purpose First Aid Kit, available on Amazon for $16.82This first aid kit comes in a compact carrying bag with clear plastic pockets that will leave everything visible for quick and easy access. Supplies include several types of bandages, tapes, sponges, pads, sterilization wipes, gloves, and medical tools. You'll be set with all of your basic medical needs in this compact kit. You can also check out our full guide to the best first aid kits.

 






A portable water filter










 
LifeStraw Personal Water Filter, available on Amazon for $14.99If you run out of clean water or find yourself without it, LifeStraws uses a microfiltration membrane to remove 99.9% of waterborne bacteria, parasites, and microplastics (as small as 1 micron). With proper use and maintenance, a LifeStraw can filter through 1,000 gallons of water.





A multi-tool army knife










 
Victorinox Swiss Army SwissChamp Pocket Knife, available on Amazon for $59.99This stainless steel army knife can be used to serve 33 different functions, including but not limited to, scissors, bottle opener, blade, screwdriver, and pliers. This compact tool can easily be carried in a backpack or pocket if you're on the go.

 






A bracelet designed to help if you're lost










 
The Atomic Bear Paracord Bracelet (2-pack), available on Amazon for $9.99These Atomic Bear bracelets have several key features that will come in handy if you find yourself lost in an unfamiliar area. Not only does it have a small compass on the clasp, but it also has an emergency whistle to make your presence known, a built-in flint fire starter, and a small emergency knife. If you cut the bracelet itself, it will unravel into 12 feet of military-grade paracord.





A two-way radio










 
Radioddity GA-2S Long Range Walkie Talkies, available on Amazon for $24.99Various emergencies can knock out power and telephone lines making it hard to communicate with members of your party should you need to separate for any reason. These two-way walkie talkies utilize 16 pre-programmed frequencies to communicate with one another for up to a 3-mile range. Its batteries can last on standby for up to 96 hours and can be recharged with any USB-compatible device. 

 






A supply of batteries










 
Energizer MAX Alkaline Batteries, available on Amazon for $15.99 (AA) and $13.58 (AAA)Energizer batteries are one of the longest-lasting alkaline batteries on the market. They have a shelf-life of 10 years and are leak-resistant for up to two years after being fully used. You can add these to your at-home survival kit and be confident that they'll be ready should an emergency strike.





A roll of heavy-duty duct tape










 
Gorilla Tape - Black Duct Tape (2-pack), available on Amazon for $15.98This double-thick adhesive tape is heavy-duty enough to stick to rough and uneven surfaces, yet workable enough that it can be ripped by hand. Gorilla Tape is also weather-resistant and can withstand moisture, UV rays, and extreme temperatures.

 






A pack of waterproof matches










 
Coghlan's Waterproof Matches (10-Pack), available on Amazon for $9.27It's always a good idea to carry waterproof matches with you in case you need to start a fire in a damp area. Each box contains 40 matches and they're sold in a 10-pack for a total of 400 matches. Though they're great for use in the rain or in humid conditions, some users have had trouble getting them to light if they've been submerged in water. Consider storing them in a waterproof container for extra peace of mind.

 






A package of N95 respirator masks










 
3M Particulate N95 Respirator with ValveThis respirator is designed to protect you from breathing in non-oil-based particles like fiberglass and sanding debris. A valve attached to the front of the mask makes for easy breathing, as well as heat and moisture reduction. A simple mask like this could help protect your respiratory system if you're in a situation where you're surrounded by significant debris.Note: As of 3/3/2020, respirators and face masks have become hard to find online due to fears of coronavirus. We will update this article with purchase links when they are back in stock.

 






An emergency food kit










 
Mountain House 4-Day Emergency Food Supply Kit, available on Amazon for $87.99It's always a good idea to keep non-perishables like canned food that doesn't require cooking in your kit. The American Red Cross suggests storing a three-day supply for each member in your group.This ready-to-go food option has a shelf-life of 30 years and is designed for emergency situations. The Mountain House 4-Day Emergency Food Supply Kit contains 28 servings (12 meals) of dried food that you just add water to. You can consume lasagna with beef sauce, noodles and chicken, breakfast skillets, and more directly out of the package in fewer than 10 minutes.

 






A manual can opener










 
Made in USA Can Opener, available on Amazon for $15.88To accompany your non-perishable foods, the Made in USA can opener can lock onto cans of all sizes with its skip-proof feed wheel made from carbon steel. It's simple and doesn't require electricity, so it's ideal for emergency situations.If you're looking for something even more compact for on-the-go can opening, check out the P-38 Can Opener and P-51 Can Opener. They're a bit more difficult to use, but they fit on a keyring and can be used as a cutting blade or even a screwdriver in a pinch.You can also check out our full guide to the best can openers. All of the above products made an appearance.

 






A supply of clean drinking water










 
Nestle Pure Life Purified Water, available on Amazon for $2.23Although we previously recommended adding LifeStraws to your at-home survival kit, you should always be prepared with clean drinking water. Stock up on gallons of water or pre-packaged bottles like this in your at-home kit. The American Red Cross suggests storing a three-day supply for each member in your group. Don't forget to recycle the bottles afterward, if you can.

 






Check out our other emergency preparedness guides










 
The best first aid kitsWhile you never want to need a first aid kit, should that need arise, you'll be glad you planned ahead and kept some high-quality medical supplies on hand. Choose the first aid kit that best suits the people and the situations they'll be in, and then hope you never have to use it. With those tips in mind, check out our recommendations to see which of our top picks is best for your needs.The best emergency kitsIn the best case scenario, you won't ever need an emergency kit, but if a worst-case scenario arises, you'll be glad you planned ahead and got one. A good emergency kit should contain rations with a multi-year shelf life, first aid materials, light sources, fire-starting tools, and other such essentials. These are the best emergency kits.The best roadside emergency car kitsRoadside emergency car kits can ensure you have some useful items on hand, in case your vehicle breaks down or is involved in an accident. Our top picks are well-stocked, full of practical supplies, and all available at reasonable price points. These are the best roadside emergency kits.The best disinfecting productsThe world can be a germy place and as we interact with others, we share bacteria. Some bacteria are actually good for our body systems but other, viral strains like measles, flu, and colds can be dangerous. And, fungal infections like athlete's foot, while not life-threatening, are pretty uncomfortable. To help combat against them, these are the best products available that do a great job of killing bacteria.

 

 


Subscribe to our newsletter.
You can purchase syndication rights to this story here.
 Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.