Shared Destiny. Shared Responsibility. The World Health Organization (WHO) director-general said about 3.4 percent of confirmed cases of COVID-19 have died.  Story at a glance World Health Organization (WHO) officials said Tuesday that the novel coronavirus is more deadly than the flu, but is containable.  WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said during a news conference Tuesday that about 3.4 percent of confirmed COVID-19 cases have been fatal, compared with the seasonal flu’s fatality rate of less than 1 percent.  “This coronavirus is not SARS, it’s not MERS and it’s not influenza. It is a unique virus with unique characteristics,” Tedros said.  Tedros said both COVID-19 and influenza cause respiratory disease and spread the same way, but COVID-19 does not transmit as efficiently as the flu. People with the flu but who are not yet sick are major drivers of transmission, which does not appear to be the case for COVID-19.  COVID-19 also causes more severe disease than seasonal influenza as there are not yet any vaccines or therapeutics, but Tedros noted “it can be contained,” unlike the flu.  WHO officials warned, however, that shortages of personal protective equipment are putting health workers at risk.  “Shortages are leaving doctors, nurses and other frontline health workers dangerously ill-equipped to care for COVID-19 patients, due to limited access to supplies such as gloves, medical masks, respirators, goggles, face shields, gowns and aprons,” Tedros said.  Health officials called on industry and governments to increase manufacturing by 40 percent to meet rising global demand. Since the start of the COVID-19 outbreak, prices of such equipment have surged. Surgical masks have seen a sixfold increase, N95 respirators have trebled and gowns have doubled, according to WHO.  There are now a total of 90,893 reported cases worldwide, and 3,110 deaths. China, where the virus is believed to have originated, reported 129 new cases in the past 24 hours, the lowest number since the Jan. 20.  Outside China, 1,848 cases were reported in 48 countries in the past 24 hours; 80 percent of those cases occurred in South Korea, Iran and Italy.  In the U.S., more than 100 cases have been confirmed with nine deaths in Washington state.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  America is changing fast! Sign up for our newsletter to stay informed and engaged.