This story is available exclusively on Business Insider Prime.
 Join BI Prime and start reading now.
 


Major companies and businesses can prepare for the economic impact caused by the coronavirus outbreak.McKinsey and Bain & Co. brought their problem-solving approaches to all the available data on the virus.Both firms broke down the industries most likely to be affected. The leading consultancies shared their advice on how businesses could prepare for the coronavirus outbreak and change their market approaches accordingly. Click here for more BI Prime stories.


As the coronavirus has spread to every province and region in China and at least 88 other countries, many companies are uncertain about what the outbreak means for their business. The leading consultancies McKinsey and Bain & Co. recently shared reports advising clients to set up company contingency plans to help combat the virus outbreak. At their best, management consultants are essentially business doctors that leaders rely on to help fix complex problems. And in the middle of the coronavirus outbreak, these experts said companies could make smarter business decisions to soften the financial blow. Here's exactly how businesses should prepare for the coronavirus outbreak, according to McKinsey and Bain consultants.Industries most affected According to McKinsey's breakdown, the industries likely to be affected for the longest amount of time include hospitality, aviation, automotive, and tourism. Because Chinese tourism accounted for $277 billion, or 16% of international tourism in 2019, McKinsey predicted a 40% reduction in demand in the tourism and hospitality industries until the disease is under control. 


Karen Harris, the managing director at Bain, generated her insights based on a coronavirus Situational Threat Report Index that combined data with her firm's problem-solving approach. She recommended that all businesses focus on mitigating the threats of disease transmission to their staff and halting unnecessary investments for now. Moreover, Bain predicted that the coronavirus would cost China more than $72 billion.About 51,000 companies worldwide have direct suppliers in the affected regions to date, and the entire global economy has been put at risk because of the spread of the coronavirus, according to the Federal Reserve. The coronavirus, which causes a disease known as COVID-19, has killed more than 3,400 people and infected more than 100,000. The vast majority of cases — just over 80% — are in China. Protect your workforce Employees come first. Both McKinsey and Bain consultants advised clients to prioritize the safety and well-being of their workforces, and many major companies are trying to do just that. For example, Google and Apple restricted international travel and encouraged employees to work remotely, Business Insider previously reported. The consulting firm Accenture also canceled "any non-essential international travel" and told employees not to schedule any additional travel until further notice, according to an internal memo sent to employees seen by Business Insider. That memo said an Accenture employee had been diagnosed with the coronavirus and that more than 100 Accenture workers were quarantined in China and Italy. A company spokesperson confirmed the memo's authenticity. 


Bain consultants also advised companies to start preparing for future talent needs, as "uncertain market conditions often make critical talent available," according to the report. In other words, recruiters should start hiring people they're going to need in the long term. On top of focusing on softening the economic slowdown, companies should think about how they're going to grow and profit after the virus blows over, the report said. Neither report commented on fears of the virus becoming a permanent part of life, like flu season, as the virus remains unpredictable and is rapidly changing.How to grapple with a break in the supply chain — take stockThe coronavirus has disrupted many companies' supply chains, and McKinsey made several recommendations about how companies could cope. First, McKinsey said companies should monitor supply shortages and then draft predictions on how they will affect business in a year's time. They should look for other opportunities to build partnerships with vendors and design a new approach for the future to prevent another major interruption of the partnership."Create a sufficient supply buffer that factors in traffic suspensions and supplier shutdowns, and monitor the end-to-end supply chain, including raw materials, inventory and delivery challenges," Harris and consultants wrote.Create a response team to deal with rapid change Adaptability is the key to overcoming change. 


Bain advised clients to be ready to move quickly if opportunities present themselves. If a company has a plan for 2020, it should make sure to adjust its budget and rework investment deals so they make sense in the current market conditions.McKinsey recommended that companies set up a cross-functional response team specifically for any issues related to COVID-19. "Companies should nominate a direct report of the CEO to lead the effort and should appoint members from every function and discipline to assist," the report said. "Team members will need to step out of their day-to-day roles and dedicate most of their to virus response."Nevertheless, both consultancies stressed that company crisis responses are a group effort, in which employees and managers should prepare by switching gears and taking on unfamiliar responsibilities to deal with an unpredictable outbreak.