Stocks bounced higher Monday after Wall Street suffered its worst after a turbulent week that saw fears of the coronavirus outbreak causing one of Wall Street’s worst week of losses since 2008. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose more than 700 points shortly before 12:45 p.m. Monday, a 2.8 percent climb after all three major stock indexes sunk more than 10 percent each last week. The Nasdaq Composite and and S&P 500 Index each rose 2.5 percent.  Trading of stock futures over the weekend swung rapidly as the U.S. confirmed its first two coronavirus fatalities in Washington state and the first coronavirus cases in Oregon, Rhode Island and New York. Cases outside of China also rose sharply, including in Iran, where reported government figures have been disputed by health officials.  Investors are betting on the Federal Reserve to announce a cut to interest rates as soon as Monday after Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said Friday that the bank “will use our tools and act as appropriate to support the economy.” Fed observers noted that Powell’s statement used phrasing the Fed employed in 2019 to preview a round of interest rates cuts. Economists widely expect the coronavirus to hinder U.S. and global economic growth, but the extent of the damage remains far from certain. The U.S. economy may be well positioned to quickly rebound from a well-contained outbreak, economists say, but a protracted outbreak could wipe out economic growth for several months.  The Fed is widely expected to cut interest rates, possibly in coordination with other global central banks, by its upcoming March 17-18 meeting. While some investors and Wall Street analysts say Fed action is crucial to curb a market panic, others argue that a cut to already low borrowing costs would do little to fend off shocks to the economy posed by an outbreak. Some economists and investors have called on the Fed and the U.S. government to offer financial support directly to small and mid-sized businesses hindered by falling demand and supply shortages. Allowing banks greater access to cheaper Fed loans has also been proposed to support the economy. Updated at 12:45 p.m. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.