Sen. John CornynJohn CornynHegar advances to Democratic runoff in Texas Senate race Cornyn wins Senate primary in Texas Texas lawmakers call for investigation into CDC's handling of released coronavirus patient in San Antonio MORE (R-Texas) won his party's Senate primary Tuesday, defeating his closest opponent by double digits. Cornyn held a comfortable lead over his GOP challengers as election results came in Tuesday evening, defeating four Republican primary contenders who all lack experience in government at the state or national level. The Texas incumbent won an endorsement for reelection from President TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE last February when it was reported that former Rep. Beto O'RourkeBeto  O'RourkeHegar advances to Democratic runoff in Texas Senate race Trump mocks Bloomberg, Warren over early Super Tuesday results Cornyn wins Senate primary in Texas MORE (D-Texas) was considering entering the race against him. O'Rourke later opted to continue his presidential campaign instead. "Senator John Cornyn has done an outstanding job for the people of Texas," Trump tweeted last year, adding that the three-term senator had his "complete and total endorsement."  Senator John Cornyn has done an outstanding job for the people of Texas. He is strong on Crime, the Border, the Second Amendment and loves our Military and Vets. John has my complete and total endorsement. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!  A number of Democratic challengers have declared for the seat, with Air Force veteran M.J. Hegar and state Sen. Royce West leading the field as results poured in Tuesday evening. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.