The House Homeland Security Committee on Wednesday asked the Trump administration to consider providing Secret Service protection to former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE and Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.), the two leading Democratic presidential candidates. Rep. Bennie ThompsonBennie Gordon ThompsonHouse committee chairman requests DHS consider Secret Service protection for Biden, Sanders Clyburn takes victory lap after Biden wins big on Super Tuesday Establishment Democrats rallying behind Biden MORE (D-Miss.), the chairman of the House panel, sent a letter to acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad WolfChad WolfHillicon Valley: Lawmakers seek 5G rivals to Huawei | Amazon, eBay grilled over online counterfeits | Judge tosses Gabbard lawsuit against Google | GOP senator introduces bill banning TikTok on government devices Lawmakers grill Amazon, eBay executives over online counterfeits Airline CEOs tell Trump, Pence about cleaning procedures for coronavirus MORE as well as the Democratic and Republican leaders in the House and Senate requesting they determine if any of the remaining Democratic presidential contenders warrant Secret Service protection.  “As the process for nominating the Democratic candidate for President of the United States continues to advance, Americans deserve to know that the major candidates for President are protected from all threats to their safety,” Thompson wrote.  Thompson specifically mentioned Biden and Sanders in his letter, saying they meet the standards for Secret Service consideration.  “The Guidelines further set forth a number of discretionary factors that may be considered when deciding whether to authorize [Secret Service] protection for a major candidate, reflecting the scale and seriousness of the candidate’s campaign,” he wrote. “Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and Senator Bernard Sanders appear to satisfy several of these criteria.”  For a candidate to get government protection, they typically have to request Secret Service presence from the Department of Homeland Security, which then consults with the top Democrats and Republicans in both chambers of Congress. However, Thompson noted that authorization guidelines also indicate that “the absence of a request would not prevent the authorization of protection when warranted.” The letter comes a day after protesters had to be wrested away from Biden at a campaign rally in California after they stormed the stage, appearing to come in physical contact with his wife, Jill Biden.  Thompson cited the “large campaign operations” and “high polling averages” for Biden and Sanders, as well as “physical threats to their safety” in urging the government to consider granting Secret Service protection to the two candidates, specifically referencing an article about Tuesday night’s protest at the Biden event. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.