drugmakers@ (Adds GSK attending White House meeting, Pence comments, White House briefing, U.S. market open, New York Governor on testing) WASHINGTON, March 2 (Reuters) - Authorities across the United States prepared for more cases of the new coronavirus Donald Trump and his task force on the outbreak will meet with drug company executives on Monday. Executives from GlaxoSmith Kline Plc, Sanofi SA , Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer Inc will attend the meeting, according to representatives for the companies. Trump said on Twitter that the would discuss "progress on a vaccine and cure." Top U.S. health officials have said any vaccine is up to 18 months away and there is no treatment, although patients can receive supportive care. The Republican president gave no other details, and the White House did not respond to a request for comment. The meeting is scheduled for 3 p.m. (2000 GMT) and Vice President Mike Pence will have a public briefing on the virus response at 5 p.m. (2200 GMT). The number of coronavirus cases in the United States has ticked up in recent days, with more than 75 confirmed cases including two reported deaths, both in Washington state where a cluster of cases is centered on a nursing home near Seattle. New York and Florida, among other U.S. states, have also confirmed cases. There have been more than 87,000 cases globally and nearly 3,000 deaths in 60 countries, according to the World Health Organization. The global death toll was up to 3,044, according to a Reuters tally. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the head of the infectious diseases unit at the U.S. National Institutes of Health, said he was concerned the number of U.S. cases could jump in coming weeks. "When you have a number of cases that you've identified and they've been in the community for a while, you're going to wind up seeing a lot more cases than you would have predicted," he told CNN in an interview on Monday. Public health officials have urged common sense steps to prevent contracting and spreading the virus, such as frequent hand-washing and staying home when sick. TESTING "We are prepared. We cant allow fear to outpace reason," tweeted New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, whose state has one confirmed case in Manhattan in New York City, a woman who caught the virus on a trip to Iran and was in home quarantine. "The whole challenge is about containment of the number of people who become exposed and who become infected," Cuomo said. He welcomed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) allowing New York to test. "I would like to have a goal of 1,000 tests per day capacity within one week because again the more testing the better." Trump administration officials over the weekend sought to soothe nerves and calm fears that a global recession was looming, arguing that the public and media were over-reacting and saying that stocks would bounce back because the American economy was fundamentally strong. World stock markets, after a week-long slide, on Monday regained a measure of calm amid hope of a possible stimulus, while U.S. stocks also opened higher. Pence, who is leading the federal government's coronavirus response, called the U.S. deaths "heartbeaking" but said the risk remained low even though "therell be more cases, "We continue to remain hopeful that ... well be able to mitigate the spread," he told Fox Business News in an interview taped on Sunday that aired Monday morning. Officials were "in the process of resolving the issues about testing kits," Pence said. Pence added that the administration was "surging resources" and would work with Congress, which is expected to take up a spending measure in coming days that could allocate billions more dollars for the virus response. Democrats have criticized his administration for playing down the crisis and not preparing for the disease's arrival. They said they would support more spending on preparation efforts. Trump took to Twitter after the second U.S. fatality was announced to defend his move to restrict travelers from China and criticize Democrats. "They didnt have a clue! Now they are fear mongering. Be calm & vigilant!" Trump wrote. (Reporting by Susan Heavey, additional reporting by Michael Erman in New York and David Morgan in Washington, editing by Grant McCool)