A top aide to Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. Chuck Rocha, a senior adviser on the Sanders campaign, said he was confident Sanders would remain close with former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE in the delegate hunt after Tuesday’s contests, where Biden had a strong showing with several unexpected wins. “We want to win every state. And as the senator said the other night, we’re not always going to win them all. But I need folks at home to stay grounded, step away from your keyboard for two seconds and listen to me. We’re going to be just fine,” Rocha said Wednesday on Hill.TV’s “Rising." “And after they count all of these delegates in California, Biden may be ahead 10, 20, 25 if he’s having a good night and we’re going to be right where we need to be,” Rocha added. “Everybody at home, it was a big night, and we are right where we need to be.” His remarks came after Biden went on a tear across the South, winning Alabama, Arkansas, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. The former vice president also picked up wins in Massachusetts, Minnesota and Texas, three states where Sanders was expected put up strong showings. Biden also won Oklahoma, a state Sanders won in the 2016 primary. Sanders, meanwhile, picked up California, Colorado, Utah and his home state of Vermont on Tuesday. “Sure, I would have liked to pick up Texas,” Rocha admitted. The Super Tuesday contests wrapped up a whirlwind 72 hours for Biden, who won the South Carolina primary on Saturday and later cemented his status as the centrist front-runner after former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE and Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) suspended their own presidential bids and backed the former vice president.  The delegates from Tuesday's contests are still being counted. In California, which Sanders won big, it could take days or weeks to tally up all the votes. The Golden State, the largest primary contest of the cycle, will allocate a whopping 415 pledged delegates. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.