Yields on US Treasuries have dropped to historic lows on coronavirus worries.The US government should take advantage of these low yields and issue long-dated Treasuries.It is time for the US government to "crowd-in" excess global capital being offered to it for nothing, and put it to good use for the benefit of all Americans.The issuance of ultra-long or perpetual treasury securities can help turn the tide on global oversupply of labor, production and – most critically – financial capital.Dan Alpert is an adjunct professor at Cornell Law School and a founding managing partner of the New York investment bank Westwood Capital LLC.This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those of the author.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


While the equity market correction has been continuing amidst global concerns over the coronavirus, political uncertainty and economic weakness, something else – of a much more historic nature – is going on in the financial markets.Yields on US Treasury securities nosedived to levels never seen before. The yield on the 10-year treasury bill on Tuesday tumbled below 1% for the first time ever and at the end of the week stood at around 0.75%, with the 30-year bond below 1.30%. And across the US Treasury market, we are seeing unprecedented moves on a daily basis. Yields are tumbling into negative territory on an inflation-adjusted basis and the market's expectation for inflation is historically muted. So much so that investors are willing to pay the government to hold their money for up to almost 25 years, net of inflation.  Investors buy US Treasuries in times of worry because the bonds, for a number of reasons, are seen as safe assets even as the economy struggles. But the sudden influx of money into Treasuries is not merely a "flight to safety" on the occasion of a global panic. It is the impact of the curtain being lifted on the last refuge of investors who had hoped to obtain superior nominal returns from a desperation-driven equity market that inflated to historic proportions.It is the recognition that the US economy is not immune to slowing global economic activity — which was already slowing before the COVID-19 pandemic.


Moreover, the rally in US Treasuries and the massive decline in yields represents the long-overdue convergence of US borrowing costs with those of far less creditworthy, developed nations. The mystique surrounding US economic growth expectations, and particularly the potential for domestic inflation, has vanished. We may not be heading to Germany's -0.65% negative 10 year bond interest rate, but the bond market has come to see US government debt as the last remaining "bargain" in risk-free securities for what it is and is piling in.The US must take advantage of the situationTypically, a collapse in bond yields of the present magnitude would set off flashing red lights signaling recession – if not worse. Even if this turns out to be a false signal (some are), growth is sluggish.So, what is America to do if it actually wishes to improve economic activity and living standards for broad sections of its population? What is it to do if the traditional signals of downturn yield that undesired outcome?In short: Take the free money being offered up by domestic and global holders of capital alike and put it to good use.


Money becomes free for a nation to borrow not just when the amount they have to pay in interest on debt they issue falls to zero, but when the return they receive on the investments made after issuing the debt is greater than the cost of paying off the bond and interest. That is, of course, theoretically possible at any interest rate – it's just a heck of a lot easier to get to when interest rates are near zero.Part of "getting to free" rests in the issue of how long a nation has to get to a positive marginal return on capital it borrows and invests. It is hard to reap the benefits of a new toll road before you have to pay back the bond in 10 years and the road takes all 10 years to build. Thus, issuing 30-year debt is better in this respect than 10 year, 50 is better than 30 and 100 is better than 50. The longest-term debt that the US has issued in modern times is 30-year debt. But there is no reason that longer term debt – or even consols, perpetual bonds –  could not be issued by the Treasury. In fact, the Treasury organized a task force in 2019 to gather "market intelligence" on the issuance of 50 and 100-year instruments. I'd argue that the market has provided the US Treasury with all the "intelligence" it needs. The market is clamoring for risk-free returns at any duration, likely including forever.A chance to reshape the US economyWhat do we do with the money we raise to truly make it free? That's fairly simple. Let's rebuild the rotting infrastructure of the United States, and remove glaring inefficiencies from our economy in other areas as well. How do these activities return money to the Treasury? Four ways:


Ending the cycle of creation of low-wage, low-hour job formation in favor of high quality construction and related support jobs, that will then pay more in tax revenues;Having workers with higher paying jobs spend that newfound income on goods and services provided by other businesses, that will then pay more in tax revenues;Producing the inputs into massive national construction efforts, such as steel, aluminum, concrete, etc. by domestic firms, that will then pay more in tax revenues; andHaving better roads, more efficient airports, better rail and – yes – cheaper and more universal healthcare will improve profit margins to businesses that will, you got it, then pay more in tax revenues.Imagine how much of the above we could accumulate per dollar spent, after even modest inflation, over 50 or 100 years. The economists Larry Summers and Brad DeLong have been writing on the multiplier effects of such spending on the depressed and stagnant economy since at least 2012 Given the plunge in interest rates over the intervening years, the net benefits would be even greater today. And how long can we do this? Well, until we see some degree of material inflation and corresponding increase in interest rates. Then we can stop. That may be a long time as things stand now. Maybe, just maybe, we will also be able to put some downward pressure on our horribly overvalued dollar, too. After all, we might induce others to fear the potential for US inflation (even if it takes long to materialize). And there would be no better medicine than that to reduce the volume of global imports to the US and spur our exports. One can only hope for dollar devaluation in present day circumstances.







Okay, what about all those seemingly well-meaning people who have been threatening that federal government debt is building to the point that it will bring us to wrack and ruin and "crowd-out" capital (raise its cost) that would otherwise be absorbed by the private sector and put to so-much-better use?


Well, these people have been dead wrong – for decades. As shown in the adjacent chart, money has become cheaper for thirty years even as government deficits have grown. So it's time to put the federal debt worries to rest. There is no crowding out in a world of persistent capital oversupply and countries that borrow in a currency they print can never default – period.Far from worrying about "crowding-out" global capital, the US government must take every advantage to "crowd-in" the ever-growing pile of underutilized funds that only a nation the size of the US can absorb – and put it to good use. US private sector investment has been awful-to-lethargic for a dozen years. It is time for the US government to take up the world's holders of capital on a bargain never before seen in the nation's history. And give the American people the benefit of that bargain.Otherwise, we can all just go home and wait for the next downturn to come to full flower.Dan Alpert is an adjunct professor at Cornell Law School, a senior fellow in macroeconomics and finance at the school's Jack C. Clarke Business Law Institute, and a founding managing partner of the New York investment bank Westwood Capital LLC. He has been active in investment banking and finance since 1982.



This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those of the author(s).








 
 Read the original article on Opinion Columnist. Copyright 2020.