Trader Joe's has instructed workers to change their free sample practices in a memo about the coronavirus outbreak viewed by Business Insider. Employees at the grocery chain have been instructed to serve samples "directly to customers," instead of putting out large plates of samples, and to use a fork or spoon so customers do not have to touch the food with their hands.Trader Joe's did not respond to Business Insider's request for comment.  Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.


Trader Joe's is tweaking how employees serve up free samples due to coronavirus concerns. Employees at the grocery chain have been instructed to serve samples "directly to customers," as opposed to putting out a large plate of samples, according to an internal memo viewed by Business Insider. "Serve samples with a fork or spoon, so customers do not need to use their hands to eat the sample," the memo reads. 







Workers have also been instructed to consider providing coffee sample cups to customers upon request, as opposed to leaving out a stack of self-serve cups. The memo instructs employees to use disposable wipes to wipe down surfaces periodically, as well as routinely clean all frequently touched surfaces in the store. While working the cash register, employees have been instructed to sanitize their hands periodically. 


Trader Joe's has also directed all crew members who think they might be ill to stay at home until they have been free of all symptoms for 24 hours. In an effort to encourage workers to stay home, managers have the discretion to approve reimbursement of absence reserve (paid time off and sick leave) for employees who are unable to work due to a respiratory illness. Trader Joe's did not respond to Business Insider's request for comment. Other retailers do not appear to be making changes to their free sample policies at this point. As shoppers flooded Costco locations over the weekend, many on social media also posted about the bulk retailers' free samples. "God bless the hundreds of people doomsday prepping at Costco right now and still eating the little food samples sitting out for everyone to touch," reads a viral tweet post on Sunday.