Senate Minority Leader Charles SchumerCharles (Chuck) Ellis SchumerTrump slams Schumer statement on Kavanaugh, Gorsuch: 'Serious action MUST be taken NOW' Montana's Democratic governor plans last-minute run for Senate Schumer's office says he was referencing justices paying 'political price' MORE (D-N.Y.) says he expects the Senate to pass billions in new funding to combat the coronavirus by the end of the week. “I'm pleased that both parties in Congress, in both houses of Congress, are coming together to do the responsible thing. I hope and expect we can pass the emergency appropriation through the Senate before the end of the week,” he said.  Top appropriators and their staff have been locked in days of negotiations over an emergency funding bill amid growing concerns about a widespread outbreak of the virus within the United States.  Two sources told The Hill on Monday night that negotiators were looking at providing approximately $7.5 billion in funding to combat the coronavirus. A deal is expected to be unveiled on Tuesday afternoon.  If a deal is finalized on Tuesday, senators are hoping the House would be able to pass the bill on Wednesday.  That would tee up the Senate to try to pass it on Thursday. Senate leadership would need cooperation from every senator to speed up consideration of the coronavirus funding bill; otherwise, a vote in the Senate would be delayed until next week.  Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard ShelbyRichard Craig ShelbyHouse passes .3 billion measure to fight coronavirus Lawmakers clinch deal for .3 billion to combat coronavirus Sessions to face Tuberville in Alabama GOP Senate runoff MORE (R-Ala.) discussed the potential floor schedule on Monday night with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnellAddison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Senate seeks massive permanent boost in conservation funding  House passes .3 billion measure to fight coronavirus MORE (R-Ky.).  “I just talked to the leader,” he said. “Asked him was it possible to bring up our bill dealing with the coronavirus this week. And the indication was that if the House does theirs Wednesday and if we have cooperation ... we could possibly bring it up Thursday.” Sen. John ThuneJohn Randolph ThuneAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Ratcliffe nomination puts Susan Collins in tough spot MORE (S.D.), the No. 2 Senate Republican, said on Tuesday that the Senate would likely set aside other legislation so they could bring up the coronavirus bill.  “I would think it could move pretty quickly over here,” he said.  View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.