Shared Destiny. Shared Responsibility. While infection is still unlikely, here are the top surfaces to be mindful of. The coronavirus COVID-19 has gone from an offshore global phenomenon to a domestic threat as community spread makes its way through parts of the U.S. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is working with local health partners to distribute tests to mitigate the continued spread.  COVID-19 has been compared to the flu and other coronaviruses, like SARS and MERS, which is prompting researchers and civilians alike to prevent infection by using similar tactics. COVID-19 spreads easily, and according to multiple outlets, is contracted through respiratory droplets that travel through the air when a patient coughs, sneezes or exhales. Aside from purchasing personal protective equipment (PPE) like face masks, disinfecting surfaces is another popular method to prevent catching the coronavirus pathogen. Speaking to the Guardian, Jürgen Haas, professor of infection medicine at the University of Edinburgh, said that COVID-19 can exist on surfaces for a sizable amount of time, although no one knows for how long. However, along with the overall likelihood of contracting the coronavirus, infection from a contaminated surface remains low. For public benefit, however, the World Health Organization (WHO) outlines several everyday items that pose a high risk of coronavirus transmission, including:   "There are 10 basic things that you should know.1⃣clean your regularly with an alcohol-based hand rub, or wash them with & .Touching your face after touching contaminated surfaces or sick people is one of the ways the #coronavirus can be transmitted"-@DrTedros pic.twitter.com/Ty8J0zoGKS   Some health officials are taking this to heart, with New York City working to quell the virus by disinfecting subway train surfaces every two hours, with a focus on ticket dispensers and handrails.  The state recently confirmed its first case of COVID-19.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  U.S. Health officials say that more test kits are set to be distributed across the U.S.  With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. With the case count rising in the U.S., it’s important to keep our heads above water and understand the facts. California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  California Gov. Gavin Newson (D) said the Grand Princess cruise ship would be held at sea as passengers experiencing symptoms are tested.  America is changing fast! Sign up for our newsletter to stay informed and engaged.