Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben CarsonBenjamin (Ben) Solomon CarsonTrump touts economic success at Hispanic convention Democratic lawmakers rip Carson over cuts to housing budget, policies Carson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging MORE, a member of the administration's coronavirus task force, told House members Wednesday the administration is not “sugarcoating” coronavirus messaging.  Carson's statement regarding the coronavirus and the administration's task force came during a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing to discuss the HUD budget. During the hearing, Carson was questioned by Appropriations subcommittee on housing and urban development Chairman David PriceDavid Eugene PriceDemocratic lawmakers rip Carson over cuts to housing budget, policies Carson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging Pelosi vows House will promote its own 'non-menacing' 2020 agenda regardless of presidential nominee MORE (D-N.C.) who asked, "Can you assure us that you and the task force will be supporting the recommendations of public health professionals and ensure that our public response and public communication about the response are based on the facts and science?" Carson responded, saying, “We want to make sure it’s completely transparent, it's not sugar-coated, it’s not used in any way as a political tool."  The line of question comes as concerns over messaging have risen due to the administration’s characterization of the virus that, at times, differs from the scientific community.  Last week, president Trump announced that Vice President Pence would be leading the task force, drawing criticism from Democrats who feel his experience is inadequate. Pence’s office is managing communication and media inquiries for the task force as well. Wednesday was not the first time Democrats took advantage of an unrelated hearing to press the administration on its response to the virus. At a hearing about U.S. strategy in Iran, Rep. Ted LieuTed W. LieuCarson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging Democrat gets in heated exchange with Pompeo at hearing: 'Do you believe coronavirus is a hoax?' Ethics complaint filed against Nunes asks how he's paying for lawsuits MORE (D-Calif.) confronted Secretary of State Mike PompeoMichael (Mike) Richard PompeoCarson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging Melania Trump at State award ceremony: I'm 'proud of what this country continues to do for women' House Republicans sound the alarm on Taliban deal MORE, asking him if he believes "the coronavirus is a hoax." "Donald TrumpDonald John TrumpAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Trump says Biden Ukraine dealings will be a 'major' campaign issue MORE's chief of staff Mick MulvaneyJohn (Mick) Michael MulvaneyCarson on coronavirus: Task force is not 'sugarcoating' messaging Press: Trump flunks public health leadership test Pentagon races to counter coronavirus threat on military forces MORE told the Conservative Political Action Conference [CPAC] that the coronavirus was the hoax of the day," Lieu said. "Do you agree with Donald Trump's chief of staff Mulvaney that the coronavirus is the hoax of the day?" Pompeo refused to answer the question, stating he is not "going to comment on what others are saying," calling Lieu's question "not useful." Lieu went on to call it "shameful" that Pompeo wouldn't say coronavirus is not a hoax, while scolding Pompeo for attending CPAC later in the day. View the discussion thread. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.