An aide to Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersRepublicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama'  Sanders condemns his supporters' 'ugly, personal attacks' against Warren MORE (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. Chuck Rocha, a senior Sanders campaign adviser, voiced optimism that the senator could win over support in the suburban areas, telling Hill.TV that people there have “moved around” from different candidates. “So I don’t think they’re locked down in Michigan. I don’t think they’re locked down in Missouri,” he said. “Two places that have a lot of those suburbs outside of St. Louis and outside of Detroit.” Rocha said Sanders's campaign plans to focus on engaging voters in those areas ahead of the March 10 primaries, characterizing them as "still persuadable." “Part of that is showing up and just having the conversation,” he said.  “And we know that Joe BidenJoe BidenAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE and other candidates may not have built the infrastructure there,” he added. “We’ve got people working all those states.” Sanders scored a win in the Michigan primary in 2016 but lost to Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonAs Biden surges, GOP Ukraine probe moves to the forefront Republicans, rooting for Sanders, see Biden wins as setback Sanders says Biden winning African American support by 'running with his ties to Obama' MORE in Missouri that year. The Vermont senator is seeking to pull out strong showings in those states next week after Biden scored upset victories in multiple states on Super Tuesday, pushing him ahead of Sanders in the race for delegates. Biden won Oklahoma, Minnesota, Massachusetts and Texas, among other states that Sanders competed for Tuesday, while the former vice president was also leading in Maine as of early Wednesday afternoon. The former vice president had 547 delegates as of Wednesday afternoon, while the Vermont senator has 484, although not all of the Super Tuesday delegates have been distributed.  Sanders had led in the number of delegates heading into Super Tuesday following wins in New Hampshire and Nevada and a close second-place finish in Iowa last month. But Biden began his comeback with a major win in South Carolina over the weekend, with fellow moderate candidates Pete ButtigiegPete ButtigiegBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden Ocasio-Cortez: Effective political organizers should be inclusive MORE and Sen. Amy KlobucharAmy KlobucharBiden surge calms Democratic jitters  Delegate battle ahead likely favors Biden How the Democratic candidates should talk to voters about Cuba MORE (D-Minn.) later dropping out and endorsing him on the eve of Super Tuesday. Hill.TV host Saagar Enjeti called out  Hill.TV host Krystal Ball declared Thursday that Establishment Democrats are slowing starting to embrace of Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT). A senior campaign adviser for the Sanders campaign said Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden's performance on Super Tuesday was due to the Democratic establishment rallying behind him. A former aide to the National Security Council (NSC) said Wednesday that China was not transparent on the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in the country in December.  An aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said Wednesday that his campaign is seeking to shore up support in Michigan and Missouri suburbs ahead of those states' primaries next week. A top aide to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) dismissed the candidate's losses on Super Tuesday and expressed confidence that he was still in a good position heading into later primary contests. The Young Turks' host John Iadarola said Tuesday that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has no clear path towards the Democratic presidential nomination. The Intercept's Washington, D.C. bureau chief, Ryan Grim, said Tuesday morning that people may be overestimating the impact of Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and former South Bend, Ind. The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.