Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Trump Campaign Accepts Obama Born in the USDonald Trump's senior spokesman said the Republican nominee now believes President Obama was definitely born in the US. Jason Miller said Donald Trump had brought "closure" to the issue by "successfully compelling" Obama to release his birth certificate. Trump had refused to comment on the birther issue in an interview on Thursday.—NBC News  Ohio Cops Kill 13-Year-Old Boy Holding a BB GunPolice in Ohio are investigating how a 13-year-old boy was fatally shot by an officer in Columbus Wednesday night. Tyre King had "pulled a gun from his waistband" when officers attempted to take him into custody, according to the Columbus Division of Police, but the weapon found at the scene was determined to be a BB gun.—VICE News  Snowden Rejects House Intelligence ReportEdward Snowden has dismissed a House of Representatives intelligence committee report condemning his activities as those of a "disgruntled employee." Snowden accused the report of being "artlessly distorted" and an "act of bad faith." Two rights groups have launched a campaign for Snowden to receive a presidential pardon.—BBC News  NYPD Shoot Man Who Attacked Officer with CleaverA man was shot by police in Midtown Manhattan after attacking an NYPD officer with a meat cleaver during rush hour Thursday. Akram Joudeh, 32, is in critical condition. An off-duty police detective who attempted to tackle him is being treated at the hospital for a six-inch knife gash from his temple to his jaw.—ABC News  Aleppo Aid Plan Stalls in Syria The UN has called on the Syrian government to allow life-saving aid into Aleppo "immediately." Staffan de Mistura, the UN special envoy, said there were 20 aid trucks ready to cross the border from Turkey into Syria. The Syrian government has yet to withdraw from Castello Road, the route into Aleppo, to allow trucks into the city.—Al Jazeera  Around 75,000 Refugees Trapped on Jordan-Syria BorderAbout 75,000 Syrian refugees have been cut off from humanitarian aid for two months in an area between Jordan and Syria known as "the berm," according to a new Amnesty International report. Jordan has restricted humanitarian access to the berm after six of its soldiers were killed in a car bomb explosion in the area in June.—CNN  Turkey Detains Four for Suspected Plot Against EmbassiesAuthorities in Turkey have detained four people in an investigation into a potential threat against British and German embassies, but discovered no links to any terrorist groups. Britain shut its embassy in Ankara on Friday for "security reasons," and the German embassy said it would only be available for "limited operations" on Friday.—Reuters  Labor Law Protestors Clash with Police in FranceAt least 15 police officers were injured in Paris during clashes between cops and protesters opposing a new labor law. Around 13,000 people took part in the rally against changes that aim to make it easier for companies to increase working hours and facilitate lay-offs. The interior ministry said 32 people were arrested.—France 24  Jay-Z Says War on Drugs Has Been an Epic Fail The rapper and label boss has declared America's war on drugs an "epic fail" in an animated four-minute op-ed video. Jay Z discusses the ineffectiveness and inequality of the anti-drug drive dating back to Richard Nixon's presidency.—The New York Times  Feds Recall 1 Million Samsung Galaxy Note 7sThe Consumer Product Safety Commission has announced a recall of 1 million Samsung Galaxy Note 7 smartphones, calling the overheating devices "serious fire and burn hazards."—NBC News  Chance the Rapper to Launch #StayWokeandVote CampaignThe artist is partnering with the NAACP for a presidential election campaign called #StayWokeandVote. NAACP volunteers will be offering Chance the Rapper fans the option to register to vote during his Magnificent Coloring world tour stops. —TIME  Skepta Beats David Bowie to Music PrizeBritish grime star Skepta has won the Mercury Prize, the UK's most prestigious music award, beating both Radiohead and David Bowie (nominated for his final album). One of the judges said Bowie "would want" the prize to go to Skepta.—Noisey  China Sends Space Lab into OrbitChina successfully launched its second space station, Tiangong-2, into orbit on Thursday. It will receive two taikonauts (the Chinese term for astronauts) in late October, who will then spend 30 days doing experiments in space.—Motherboard  Texas Is the Worst State for Health Insurance The state's two biggest cities, Dallas and Houston, have the highest percentage of uninsured residents in America, according to the US Census Bureau. Another Texan city, San Antonio, ranks fourth for rates of uninsured residents.—VICE News