It's been a long few days, so this week’s comic roundup is all about escapism. It's too soon for the comic industry to really react to election news and deal with it in any meaningful way, so here are four of the most fantastical, wild, imaginative comics to hit shelves this week. These great books feature a version of Edo-era Japan where everyone’s a different type of animal, an offbeat detective who strings together coincidence, Adventure Time in all its monster-slaying glory, and Jonesy, which might be the best comic for teens that’s ever been made. Treat yourself and take a trip into Edo-era Japan with Usagi Yojimbo, the wandering ronin rabbit. In this comic, where everyone's an anthropomorphic animal, the roaming hero tries to impart kindness and justice into a world that can sometimes be hard and brutal. This is a huge (and, to be fair, very expensive) Gallery collection of some of the best Usagi stories, direct scanned from the artist’s original boards, and printed to their size (12” x 17”). Based on the other amazing best-selling novels by Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy author Douglas Adams, Dirk Gently: The Salmon of Doubt follows the adventures of Dirk Gently, a holistic detective. He sees connectedness in all things, and solves mysteries by matching mundane details together in an absurd and always accurate way. In this comic series, he’s beginning to remember things from his childhood… but it’s a childhood he never lived. Wild, goofy, fun… a must-read for the pleasant absurdity. Perhaps the ultimate comic to use to unplug from reality this week, this issue of the Adventure Time comic is escapism upon escapism. With adventurers Finn and Jake traipsing through a dungeon with Jake’s brother, Finn decides he wants to take the reigns in designing the dungeon and the threats within. It’s a fantasy comic echoing the feel of being a Dungeon Master, and there’s plenty of silliness to go around. Jonesy always serves as a sort of chicken soup for the comic reader’s soul. This is an incredible comic featuring a diverse cast and spotlighting young, rad, perfectly not-perfect high school kids. In this issue, Jonesy and her friend Susan are just trying to sneak into an 18-and-over show starring their idol, Sister Cee Cee. But everyone knows Susan because her mom is the mayor, so Jonesy has to use her magic, cupid-like powers to help them get into the club. What were your favorite pulls of the week? Let us know in the comments or on Twitter @CreatorsProject. Related: ‘Laid Waste’ May Be the Best Indie Comic All Year Wolf Cops, Swamp Monsters, and BLOOD: This Week in Comics 'Love and Rockets' Returns with Aplomb