Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Tim Kaine Says the Trump Organization Is 'Octopus-Like'Hillary Clinton's running mate Tim Kaine used the vice-presidential debate to attack Donald Trump on taxes, calling the GOP nominee's business "an octopus-like organization with tentacles all over the world." Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, who held his own for most of the night, said Trump had "used the tax code just the way it's supposed to be used, and he did it brilliantly."—TIME Yahoo Allegedly Scanned Hundreds of Millions of Emails for the GovernmentYahoo began secretly scanning the incoming emails of hundreds of millions of users last year to comply with an order from US intelligence officials, according to a Reuters report Tuesday. Patrick Toomey, an attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union, called the order "unprecedented and unconstitutional."—VICE Team Clinton Claims Registration Success in Swing StatesHillary Clinton's campaign team is hyping a significant bump in registration and early voter ballot requests in North Carolina and Florida, two pivotal swing states. In North Carolina, 84,000 more black voters have registered than at the same point in 2012. And in Florida, the number of Hispanic voters requesting vote-by-mail ballots is up 73 percent compared to 2012.—BuzzFeed News Illinois School in Lockdown Over Clown ThreatsA school in Waukegan, Illinois, was put on lockdown Tuesday after students reported seeing creepy clowns taunting them outside. Students claimed one clown had a knife and another had a gun, though police said it's unclear whether the weapons were real or props. "It's all part of this national thing going on with creepy killer clowns," said a school spokesman.—Chicago Tribune Hurricane Matthew Leaves 11 Dead in CaribbeanHurricane Matthew, a category four storm, has killed at least 11 people in the Caribbean after pounding Haiti and other island nations in the region. The massive storm has killed at least five people in Haiti, bringing 145-mph winds, destroying homes, and cutting off parts of the island's southwest. The hurricane was set to hit the Bahamas Wednesday.—AP Hong Kong Activist Deported from ThailandHong Kong pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong has been deported after being held by Thai authorities in Bangkok. Wong, 19, was detained after arriving at Suvarnabhumi airport. No official reason has been offered at this stage, but sympathetic activists were pointing to Beijing as a possible interlocutor.—BBC News Turkish Soldier Killed, 23 ISIS Fighters Dead in SyriaOne Turkish soldier was killed and three were wounded in a clash with ISIS fighters in Syria in which 18 militants were "neutralized," according to the Turkish military. US-led coalition warplanes also launched a bevy of strikes on ISIS targets in northern Syria, killing another five fighters.—Reuters Duterte Tells Obama to 'Go to Hell'Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte said he would "break up" with the United States under his leadership. Duterte also said President Obama can "go to hell" over his criticism of his government's brutal war against drug dealers, which has killed thousands. "Eventually I might, in my time, I will break up with America," he said. "I would rather go to Russia and to China."—Al Jazeera Wikileaks Wants an Online Army to Fight MisinformationJulian Assange has suggested WikiLeaks will unveil a massive new trove of documents related to the US election in the coming weeks, and his group wants an "army" of volunteers to fight back online against critics and "misinformation" written about their work.—Motherboard Ben Stiller Says Prostate Cancer Test Saved His LifeActor Ben Stiller has revealed he was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2014, but is now cancer-free. Stiller lent his support for a PSA (prostate-specific antigen test) earlier than suggested by the American Cancer Society, saying it "saved my life."—CNN Tyson Fury Says He Has Taken Lots of CocaineThe world heavyweight boxing champion Tyson Fury said he has been snorting cocaine and drinking daily for the past four months. Fury also claims to have been getting psychiatric care for depression: "I'm in a very bad place at the moment."—Rolling Stone White Stripes Pissed About Music Use in Trump VideoThe White Stripes have denounced the use of their song "Seven Nation Army" in a pro-Donald Trump video. In a Facebook message, the band stated: "They are disgusted by this association, and by the illegal use of their song."—Pitchfork Netflix May Soon Be Taxed Like Cable Subscriptions The city of Pasadena, California, is debating whether to tax Netflix and Hulu with its municipal utility tax code, usually applied to cable subscribers. Netflix said it would be a "dangerous precedent" to start taxing websites using laws intended for utilities.—VICE News Rapper Logic Thinks White People Are a 'Cultural Evolution'Maryland rapper Logic has explained how being biracial inspired his new album AfricAryaN. "It's about me being black and white... and about that cultural evolution and how you can go from the darkest of skin to the lightest of skin."—Noisey