Update: Alicia Machado is not staying silent after Donald Trump, in his overnight tweet storm, urged his followers to "check out" her alleged sex tape.The former beauty queen took to Instagram to comment on the "defamations and cheap, ill-intentioned lies" spread by Trump and his campaign."Throughout his campaign of hate, the Republican candidate insists on discrediting and demoralizing a woman, one of his most defining and terrifying characteristics. With this, he seeks to distract attention from his real problems and his inability to pretend to be the leader of this great nation," she said in her post, translated from Spanish. "When I was a young girl, the now-candidate humiliated me, insulted me, and publicly disrespected me, as he has done, usually privately, in the most cruel form." She added, "As this was happening to me, it has become clear over the years that his actions and conduct have been repeated with other women over decades. Therefore I will continue to stand, sharing my story, with absolute support for Mrs. Clinton in the name of women, of my sisters, aunts, grandmothers, cousins, friends, and the female community.”Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton called Trump's Twitter rant "unhinged, even for Trump." This article was originally posted on September 30, 2016, at 11:15 a.m.We're less than 40 days out from the election, and instead of directing his attention to other issues, the Republican presidential candidate is continuing to smear a former pageant queen on Twitter and urging millions of people to check out her alleged sex tape. The two-decade-old feud between Donald Trump and former Miss Universe Alicia Machado was reignited after the first presidential debate earlier this week when Hillary Clinton used the Venezuelan beauty queen as an example of Trump's bad treatment of women. The day after the debate, instead of shifting away from the issue, the GOP nominee doubled down on his weight-shaming comments. And on Friday, he took the controversy to Twitter. Trump doesn't exactly have the best track record when it comes to his comments about women. He's also not the poster boy for letting things go, so it's no surprise that he's dragging out a days-old controversy.But to slut-shame Machado and call her "disgusting" — after already weight-shaming her earlier in the week — is an unprecedented low for the candidate. The alleged sex tape to which he refers doesn't exist, according to Snopes. Trump and other Machado critics may have been referring to an alleged "risqué" scene in the Spanish reality show La Granja.The attack, posted between 5:14 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. EDT, also included the theory that Hillary Clinton helped Machado obtain her citizenship — a claim that Trump offered no proof of.