This is the eleventh woman in recent weeks to accuse Donald Trump of sexual misconduct  This is the eleventh woman in recent weeks to accuse Donald Trump of sexual misconduct  Adult film actress, director, and sex educator Jessica Drake on Saturday became the 11th woman to accuse Donald Trump of sexual misconduct or sexual assault. Drake, accompanied by civil rights attorney Gloria Allred, said Trump grabbed and kissed her and two other women without asking permission during a 2006 charity golf event in Lake Tahoe, where he also tried to pay her $10,000 to attend a party with him. “I understand that I may be called a liar or an opportunist, but I will risk that in order to stand in solidarity with women who share similar accounts that span many, many years,” Drake said at the press conference Saturday in Los Angeles. Drake’s statement came just hours after GOP presidential nominee Trump spoke at a rally in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, near where Abraham Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address during the Civil War. Trump’s address struck a different chord. He, too, spoke of unity, but he also used the appearance to threaten his growing list of sexual-assault accusers. “Every woman lied,” Trump said, and then promised, “All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Adult film actress, director, and sex educator Jessica Drake on Saturday became the 11th woman to accuse Donald Trump of sexual misconduct or sexual assault. Drake, accompanied by civil rights attorney Gloria Allred, said Trump grabbed and kissed her and two other women without asking permission during a 2006 charity golf event in Lake Tahoe, where he also tried to pay her $10,000 to attend a party with him. “I understand that I may be called a liar or an opportunist, but I will risk that in order to stand in solidarity with women who share similar accounts that span many, many years,” Drake said at the press conference Saturday in Los Angeles. Drake’s statement came just hours after GOP presidential nominee Trump spoke at a rally in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, near where Abraham Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address during the Civil War. Trump’s address struck a different chord. He, too, spoke of unity, but he also used the appearance to threaten his growing list of sexual-assault accusers. “Every woman lied,” Trump said, and then promised, “All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Drake said she met Trump 10 years ago at a golf tournament where she was representing Wicked, an adult entertainment studio. She said he flirted with her, and she agreed to give him her number. Later, he invited her up to his penthouse suite.  “I didn’t feel right going alone, so two other women came with me,” Drake said. She recalled that he was wearing pajamas when they arrived, and he “grabbed each of us tightly in a hug and kissed each one of us without asking permission.” He proceeded to ask her personal questions “about shooting porn” and about her love life. “It felt like an interview,” Drake said. Around 30 minutes later, she said, they all left. Drake said she later received numerous phone calls from Trump “or a male calling on his behalf” asking her to return, and inviting her to a party. She declined, saying she had to return to Los Angeles for work. But Trump was insistent, she said. “What do you want?” Trump allegedly asked. “How much?” According to Drake, Trump then offered her $10,000 and said she could fly in his private jet if she “accepted his private invitation.” Drake said she came forward to strengthen and support the testimonies of the other 10 women, and in light of the leaked 2005 “Access Hollywood” tapes, where Trump was caught speaking on a hot mic saying that his star power entitles him to grab women “by the pussy” and kiss them without asking. “Collectively, his words and his actions are a huge testament to his character: that of uncontrollable misogyny, entitlement, and being a sexual-assault apologist,” Drake said. Trump’s campaign released a statement in response. “This story is totally false and ridiculous…. Mr. Trump does not know this person, does not remember this person, and would have no interest in ever knowing her.” The statement went on to frame Drake’s statement as “just another attempt of the Clinton campaign trying to rig the election.” As for the photo of Trump and Drake at Lake Tahoe, his campaign said it was “one of thousands taken out of respect for people asking to have their picture taken with Mr. Trump.” “I realize that in this situation I may be but a tiny grain of sand,” Drake said during the press conference. “But clearly, this is an enormous beach.”