Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Trump Booed for Clinton Jokes at Charity DinnerDonald Trump was booed by the audience for his jokes about his rival Hillary Clinton at the Alfred E. Smith charity dinner on Thursday night. "Here she is in public, pretending not to hate Catholics," Trump said to boos. During her own speech, Clinton joked: "We'll either have the first female president or the first president who started a Twitter war with Cher." —Bloomberg  NSA Contractor to Be Charged Under Espionage ActGovernment prosecutors intend to file charges under the Espionage Act against a former NSA contractor arrested in August and charged with stealing top-secret intelligence. In court papers filed Thursday, the government said Harold T. Martin III stole 50,000 gigabytes of data over two decades, far more than Edward Snowden took to leak to journalists. —VICE News  Judge Faces Impeachment Calls After Lenient Sentence to RapistA Montana judge who sentenced a man to 60 days in jail for repeatedly raping his own 12-year-old daughter is facing a campaign for his impeachment. Prosecutors had asked for a sentence of 25 years. More than 62,000 people have signed a petition on Change.org to remove Montana's 17th District judge John McKeon, who defended his decision by saying that an evaluation found that the man could be treated. —NBC News  Kansas Militia Group Members Pose 'Substantial Danger,' Say ProsecutorsProsecutors have recommended three men accused of conspiring to detonate truck bombs at a Somali apartment complex the day after the election should stay behind bars until trial because they pose a "substantial danger" to the community. The anti-Muslim militia group in Kansas, calling itself the "Crusaders," came to the authorities' attention when one member contacted the FBI. —CBS News  ISIS Militants Attack Iraqi Oil City KirkukSuspected ISIS militants attacked several buildings and a power station in the Iraqi oil city of Kirkuk early Friday, killing 18 people. At least eight militants were also killed, either in suicide attacks or by security forces. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attacks. —Reuters  South Africa Plans to Quit War Crimes CourtSouth Africa has reportedly begun the process of withdrawing from the International Criminal Court (ICC). Diplomats have already notified the UN of the planned withdrawal, according to media reports. South Africa refused last year to arrest Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir, who is wanted by the ICC on war crime charges, on the ground that doing so would amount to "regime change." —BBC News  Venezuela Suspends Recall Referendum DriveElectoral officials in Venezuela have suspended a legal campaign for a recall referendum against President Nicolás Maduro. The electoral council decision came after several regional courts voided the results of an opposition signature drive against Maduro. Opposition leader Henrique Capriles, who is now barred from leaving the country, described the country as being in "a dangerous scenario." —Al Jazeera  Duterte Announces 'Separation' from the USPresident Rodrigo Duterte has declared the Philippines's "separation" from the US and realignment with China during a visit in Beijing. "America has lost now," he declared, before saying he would tell Vladimir Putin "that there are three of us against the world—China, Philippines, and Russia."—CNN  Jay Z First Rapper Nominated for Songwriter Hall of FameJay Z is among the nominees to enter the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2017, the first rapper ever put forward for the honor. Jay Z has been silent on Kanye West venting about "TIDAL/Apple bullshit" onstage and saying the pair would never collaborate again. —The Guardian  El Chapo Extradition Approved by Mexican JudgeA Mexican judge has approved the extradition of drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman to the US, according to the Mexican Attorney General's office. His attorneys, however, are expected to appeal. —BuzzFeed News  Hundreds of Snow Leopards Killed Each YearSomewhere between 220 and 450 rare snow leopards are being killed in Central Asia each year, according to a new report by wildlife monitoring group Traffic. There are only 4,000 to 7,000 of the endangered animals left in the world. —New Scientist  Hotspot Vigilantes Try to Beam Internet to AssangeWikiLeaks supporters have been trying to beam the internet to Julian Assange after Ecuador cut the service at his residence inside the country's London embassy. British supporters were urged to set up mobile WiFi hotspots near the embassy. —Motherboard  Radiohead Confirmed as Glastonbury HeadlinerRadiohead has been announced as a headliner at next year's Glastonbury, the UK's major summer music festival. It will be the band's third time playing the Pyramid Stage after Glastonbury slots in 1997 and 2003. —Noisey  STD Rates Rise to Record Highs in USThe number of reported sexually transmitted disease cases in the US has hit an all-time high, as infection rates for syphilis, chlamydia, and gonorrhea all rose for the second year in a row. There are now 20 million new STD cases each year. —VICE