Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Harry Reid Says FBI Director May Have Broken LawSenate Minority Leader Harry Reid on Sunday wrote that FBI director James Comey he "may have broken the law" by going public with new details on Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server so close to an election. Specifically, Reid referred to the Hatch Act, which prohibits political activity by Executive Branch officials. Meanwhile, the FBI has obtained a warrant to search a computer shared by former congressman Anthony Weiner and his estranged wife and Clinton aide, Huma Abedin.—NBC News  Clinton Seems to Enjoy Lead with Early Swing State Voters Democrats seem to have an edge among ballots—and there are a lot of them—already cast in swing states like Colorado, Nevada, and North Carolina, which could limit the impact of the latest email flap as Election Day approaches. Nearly 25 percent of eligible voters have already had their say in key states.—The New York Times  At Least Two Mass Shootings at Halloween PartiesHalloween festivities were not spared from America's mass shooting scourge this weekend. Omani Free, 18, and Tabitha Cruz, 20, were shot and five others were wounded after gunfire broke out at an apartment building in Newburgh, New York. And in San Antonio, Texas, a man dressed as Freddy Krueger reportedly opened fire at a party around 5 AM Sunday, wounding five.—CBS News  Oklahoma Fugitive Killed in Police ShootoutLaw enforcement in Oklahoma caught up with violent fugitive Michael Vance, the subject of a weeklong manhunt, in a shootout in Dewey County on Sunday. Vance, 38, was wanted on charges of first-degree murder and carjacking, among other offenses.—USA Today  UN Envoy Appalled by New Rebel Violence in SyriaThe UN special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, says he is "appalled and shocked" at rebel assaults on civilian targets in western Aleppo. De Mistura added that"indiscriminate" rocket attacks could amount to war crimes. At least 41 civilians, including 17 children, have been killed in western Aleppo over the past three days, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.—Al Jazeera  Turkey Ousts 10,000 Civil Servants in Latest PurgeTens of thousands of civil servants have been sacked and over a dozen media outlets shut down in Turkey over suspected links with terrorist organizations or controversial Cleric Fethullah Gulen, the government announced. It's the latest fallout from the failed July coup that nearly toppled President Tayyip Erdoğan.—Reuters Thousands Homeless After Another Earthquake in Italy Yet another earthquake slammed central Italy this weekend, leaving thousands stuck in temporary housing. Though no deaths were reported, some 20 people were said to be injured, and several aftershocks were felt overnight into Monday morning.—BBC News  Pollution Kills 600,000 Children Each Year, UNICEF SaysA new report released by UNICEF claims 2 billion children in the world live with air pollution levels above what the World Health Organization says is safe, and also that some 600,000 children under age five die each year from diseases caused or made worse by poor air quality.—CNN  'Inferno' Bombs at the Box Office The latest Dan Brown conspiracy flick Inferno has flopped at the box office, drawing just $15 million this weekend. Tyler Perry comedy Boo! A Madea Halloween took first place for the second weekend in a row.—The Hollywood Reporter  Hillary Duff Apologizes for Halloween OutfitThe actress and singer apologized for her Halloween outfit after she and boyfriend Jason Walsh went to a party dressed as a pilgrim and a Native American. "It was not properly thought through," Duff tweeted.—Billboard  New Delhi Reaches Peak Smog After Diwali FestivitiesThe indian capital was covered in smog Monday after the city's Diwali firework celebrations left a mark. Pollution reached the maximum level of 500 on the air-quality index by Sunday evening.—TIME  NASA Program Spotted Near-Miss AsteroidA computer program being tested by NASA called "Scout" identified an asteroid headed toward Earth, but estimated it would miss the planet by a couple hundred thousand miles.—Motherboard  Soulja Boy Sued for Alleged Gun ThreatsAtlanta-based rapper Skrill Dilly has filed suit against Soulja Boy, saying threats posted on Instagram three months ago were directed at him. Dilly also alleges Soulja put a $10,000 bounty on his head.—Noisey