Donald Trump just pulled off one of the greatest upsets in political history, becoming the 45th president of the United States of America. The businessman-turned-politician surpassed the 270 electoral vote threshold he needed to inflict a shock defeat on Hillary Clinton and earn his place in the White House. Earlier this year, MPs debated whether Trump should be banned from entering the UK for comments he had made about Muslims and ethnic minorities. Although MPs voted against barring the now-president, they used some choice words to describe him, including "poisonous," "an idiot," and "a fool." Prime Minister Theresa May has now congratulated Trump on winning a "hard-fought campaign," and this is how some of Britain's other most senior and well-known political figures have reacted to his election. Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said he was looking forward to working with Trump: Here's Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale expressing her dismay. Elsewhere in Scotland, the country's Conservative leader Ruth Davidson said the result was "not the one she had wanted:" Owen Smith, who was a Labour leadership candidate earlier this year, described Trump as a racist and said his election means Britain should stay in the EU. His colleague, Chuka Umunna, suggested the result was similar to Brexit as it represented the public's rejection of globalisation. It was all too much for Labour MP Jess Philips as she watched Trump march to victory. Her colleague, Labour MP John Woodcock, is currently in the US to witness the election take place. He described the thought of a Trump presidency as "terrifying." Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron said that "liberal values" had been "defeated" in the election: The co-leaders of the Green Party, Caroline Lucas and Jonathan Bartley, claimed Trump's election was a "dark" and "devastating" day. Michael Fabricant, a Tory MP who expressed support for Trump in the run-up to the election, said the new president could be as successful as Ronald Reagan. He also suggested the election of Trump would have a positive impact on Brexit, as it would increase the chances of a Britain-US trade deal being agreed sooner.