Police and Protesters Clash at Dakota Pipeline Site Police used water cannons and what appeared to be tear gas on people protesting the Dakota Access pipeline overnight Sunday. The Morton County Sheriff's Department said 400 people tried to cross the bridge at the pipeline site and set vehicles on fire, with one official describing the clashes as a "riot." —VICE News Obama Willing to Criticize Trump as CitizenPresident Obama may buck convention and criticize his successor, should Donald Trump threaten the country's "core" values after he leaves office. Although Obama rejected the idea of "popping off in every instance," he said that if an issue goes "to core questions about our values and our ideals," he would "examine it when it comes." —NBC News New York State Police to Set Up Hate Crimes UnitNew York governor Andrew Cuomo has announced a new program to fight hate crime with state police, suggesting the "ugly political discourse" has "gotten worse" since the election. Cuomo also said the state would help establish a legal defense fund for low-income immigrants. —Reuters Texas Police Officer Killed While Writing Traffic TicketA Texas cop was shot and killed while writing up a traffic ticket in San Antonio on Sunday morning. Detective Benjamin Marconi, 50, was sitting inside his car when the driver of a black vehicle pulled up, got out, and shot him twice. Two other officers, one in Florida and another in Missouri, were shot and wounded later Sunday. —USA Today Indian Train Crash Death Toll Rises to 142 Rescue workers appeared to complete their search for survivors of a train derailment in northern India, with the death toll from the accident reaching 142 people. At least 200 more were also injured when the Indore-Patna express train veered off the tracks near the city of Kanpur early Sunday. —Reuters Suicide Bomb Attack Kills At Least 27 at Kabul Mosque At least 27 people have been killed and more wounded after a suicide bomber detonated a device inside a Shia mosque in Kabul, the Afghan capital. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack. —Al Jazeera Merkel to Run for Fourth Term as German Leader German chancellor Angela Merkel, in power since 2005, has announced she will run for a fourth term in office. She plans to "fight for our values and our way of life" after consulting her party, the Christian Democratic Union, Merkel said Sunday. —VICE News Sarkozy Defeated in French Presidential PrimaryFormer French president Nicholas Sarkozy has been defeated in the primary contest to choose his conservative party's next presidential candidate. He's since backed former PM Francois Fillon, who finished atop the first round of voting and will face another former PM, Alain Juppe, in a run-off next Sunday. —BBC News Kanye Cancels LA Gig After Sacramento FiascoKanye West canceled his Sunday night concert in Los Angeles hours before showtime without explanation. The cancelation followed an onstage rant during Saturday's Sacramento show in which the star slammed Beyoncé, Hillary Clinton, and Mark Zuckerberg. —The Guardian 'Fantastic Beasts' Bests Box Office CompetitionHarry Potter spinoff Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them seized the No.1 spot at the box office, taking $75 million on its opening weekend. The J.K. Rowling–penned movie took another $143.3 million overseas. —The Hollywood Reporter Green Day Slams Trump and KKK at AMAsBillie Joe Armstrong sang "No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA" live on TV during Green Day's performance of Bang, Bang at the American Music Awards on Sunday night. Trump had not responded on Twitter as of publication. —Vanity Fair Future Drops Two New Tracks The rapper Future dropped two new tracks, Ain't Tryin and Poppin Tags, on OVO Sound Radio this weekend. The release follows his collaboration with Gucci Mane, Free Bricks 2, released last week. —Noisey NASA's New Satellite to Give Better Weather ForecastsNASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have launched a new weather satellite into space. The device is designed to give more accurate weather forecasts and warnings for the US, Latin America, and the Caribbean. —Motherboard Tony Blair Allegedly Plotting His ComebackFormer UK prime minister Tony Blair is reportedly considering a return to national politics. Blair, who stepped down in 2007, is apparently searching for new offices in Westminster close to the British Parliament. —VICE News