Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Email Errors Due to Bad Labeling, Says Tim KaineHillary Clinton's running mate Tim Kaine said the Democrat nominee was unaware of the sensitivity of some information she shared over email while secretary of state because it was "improperly labeled." Kaine said "it is difficult to know sometimes whether a statement or a paragraph is classified or not."—ReutersMike Pence Promises Tax Returns ReleaseRepublican vice presidential nominee Mike Pence pledged to release his tax returns this week. Pence said Donald Trump will also release his tax returns, but only "at the completion of an audit." The Trump campaign expects an IRS audit to end sometime after the November 8 election.—TIMENorth Dakota Oil Pipeline Protest Turns ViolentProtests against the Dakota Access Pipeline in North Dakota turned violent on Saturday when demonstrators supporting a Sioux Tribe faced off with an energy company's private security guards. Video has emerged showing guards threatening protesters with dogs. Morton County police said three guards were injured.—NPR News  South Carolina Cop Who Killed Teen is FiredA police officer who fatally shot unarmed 19-year-old Zachary Hammond during a drugs sting in a parking lot last year has been fired by Seneca Police Department. Officer Mark Tiller was never charged for the incident, but a judge has approved a $2.1 million settlement in a wrongful death lawsuit filed by Hammond's family.—NBC News  Explosions in Syria Kill at Least 18At least 18 people have been killed in a series of explosions in government and Kurdish-held parts of Syria. Blasts have been reported in the cities of Tartous, Homs, Damascus, and the Kurdish-controlled north-eastern city of Hassakeh. There has been no immediate claim of responsibility for the explosions.—Al Jazeera North Korea Test Fires Three Ballistic MissilesNorth Korea has fired three ballistic missiles into the sea off its east coast, as the G20 leaders meet in China, North Korea's main backer. In a meeting with South Korean President Park Geun-hye, Chinese President Xi said China opposed the proposed deployment of a US-backed, THAAD anti-missile system in South Korea.—ReutersHong Kong Elects Pro-Democracy ActivistsA group of young, anti-China activists have won seats on Hong Kong's Legislative Council (LegCo), early election results show. Nathan Law, 23, a leader of 2014's pro-democracy "umbrella movement" protests, has won a seat. At least four radical young activists from his Demosisto party have claimed seats.—The Guardian  Brazilian Police Break Up Pro-Rousseff RallyPolice used tear gas to disperse thousands of demonstrators protesting against the removal of leftist president Dilma Rousseff. Organizers said 50,000 Rousseff supporters attended Sunday's rally in San Paulo. Several people were injured as clashes with police broke out, and officers used tear gas to disperse the crowd.—BBC News Soccer Star Joins in National Anthem ProtestMegan Rapinoe knelt during the national anthem Sunday night before the Seattle Reign's game against the Chicago Red Stars in support of Colin Kaepernick. "It was a little nod to Kaepernick and everything that he's standing for right now."—ABC News  Leslie Jones Returns to Twitter The actress and comedian is back on Twitter after quitting last month when hackers took over her website and published nude photos. "Thanks to my fans and friends!" she tweeted Sunday night. "I ALWAYS GET BACK UP!"—Billboard  Giant Panda No Longer Endangered The giant panda is no longer an endangered species, thanks to a 17 percent population increase in China. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has changed its status from "endangered" to "vulnerable."—CNNDrake Video Features Angry Tyra BanksDrake has released a 12-minute video for his song Child's Play in which he gets into a heated fight with Tyra Banks at Cheesecake Factory. It's based on the lyric: "Why you gotta fight with me at Cheesecake / You know I love to go there."—Noisey  Disabled People Prevented from Playing Pokémon GoNiantic, the Pokémon Go developer, has issued a ban to wheelchair-bound disabled player who was using an emulator to recreate walking around her local park. "I am disappointed to lose access to the game," said Ana Mardoll.—Motherboard  Canada Failing to Count Assisted Suicide NumbersRight-to-die activists are concerned the Canadian government isn't adequately tracking the numbers of patients that have chosen a medically-supervised death. The assisted dying law, passed in June, requires government to track the numbers.—VICE News