Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Photo by Mikhail Svetlov/Getty Images  Intelligence Officials Suggest Putin Personally Involved in Election MeddlingAmerican officials have "a high level of confidence" that President Vladimir Putin was involved in the Russian campaign to disrupt the US presidential election. Two senior officials said intel pointed toward the autocrat personally helping decide how hacked material from the Democratic National Committee was used.—NBC NewsAbout 1 Billion Yahoo Accounts Compromised by HackYahoo has revealed that more than 1 billion accounts may have been accessed by hackers, a breach that included stolen passwords, email addresses, and phone numbers. The company said information stolen in the newly discovered hack, dating back to 2013, did not include payment card or bank account details.—VICE NewsStates Ordered to Provide Funds for Planned ParenthoodThe Obama administration has implemented a rule requiring states allow Planned Parenthood access to federal grants related to family planning and women's health. Republicans have threatened to block federal cash for the organization because some clinics perform abortions; it's an issue on which Donald Trump was expected by some to take swift action in January. The Obama administration rule complicates that.—NPR NewsAlleged JPMorgan Hacker Arrested at JFKUS citizen Joshua Samuel Aaron was arrested at JFK after flying in from Moscow to face charges relating to the 2014 hack of 83 million JPMorgan Chase customers' account details. Aaron is one of three men accused of stealing personal data from US financial firms. They are alleged to have stolen information on more than 100 million customers in all.—AP  Ambulance Convoy Attacked in Aleppo as Evacuation BeginsFighters loyal to Bashar al Assad's regime fired on a convoy of ambulances attempting to evacuate the wounded from eastern Aleppo, killing one and injuring four others, according to the volunteer group Syrian Civil Defense. The evacuation of civilians from the city was reportedly still under way Thursday, despite the incident.—Al JazeeraColombia Pardons More Than 100 FARC RebelsColombia's justice minister said at least 110 FARC rebels have been pardoned by the government as part of the latest attempt at a deal to end the decades-long conflict. Jorge Londono added that around 300 pardons for "political crimes" could be granted, but all would have to go before a judge for review.—AFPDuterte Critics Raise Impeachment Possibility in PhilippinesTwo Philippine senators have said it might be possible to impeach President Rodrigo Duterte after he boasted about "personally" taking part in lethal attacks on drug criminals. Senator Leila de Lima said Duterte's claims were "ground for impeachment under the constitution," while Senator Richard Gordon said it opened up a legal route to impeachment.—The GuardianAustrian Government to Purchase Hitler's BirthplaceThe Austrian parliament has passed legislation allowing the government to take ownership of the house in which Adolf Hitler was born. Compensation will be given to owner Gerlinde Pommer. The government wants to stop the building becoming a focal point for neo-Nazi groups, but it is not yet known if it will be demolished.—BBC News   John Legend Calls Kanye-Trump Summit a 'Publicity Stunt'Singer-songwriter John Legend says he is "pretty disappointed" with Kanye West for meeting President-elect Donald Trump. "I don't think it's impossible to talk to him about issues, but I won't be used as a publicity stunt," he added.—NoiseyElon Musk Joins Trump Advisory TeamDonald Trump's transition team announced that Tesla CEO Elon Musk has joined an advisory panel of business leaders: the Strategic and Policy Forum. Musk, like fellow panelist Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, was critical of Trump during the campaign.—Motherboard  Ashley Madison Owner Agrees to $1.6 Million FineAshley Madison's parent company has agreed to pay $1.6 million in settlements to the US Federal Trade Commission and 13 US states. An investigation found the dating site had created fake profiles and allowed a data breach by having lax security.—USA Today Entire Police Force Quits in Indiana TownMarshall Michael Thomison and his four reserve deputies all quit Bunker Hill's police department, leaving the small Indiana town with no police force. Thomison alleged the town council asked the cops for confidential information and made other "unethical" requests.—CBS NewsYouTuber, Brexit, and Glam-Ma Enter the Dictionary The latest words and terms enshrined in the Oxford English Dictionary include YouTuber, Brexit, and glam-ma—an expression used to describe a glamorous grandma. The phrase "get your freak on" will also be added to the OED.—APDenying Abortion Does Psychological Harm, Says StudyA five-year study that tracked the mental health of women seeking an abortion shows denying the procedure can have serious mental health effects. The Bixby Center for Global Reproductive Health study had data from 558 women.—Motherboard