Obama Warns Against "Tug of Tribalism"Speaking alongside Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, who was making a historic visit to Pearl Harbor, President Barack Obama made a pointed warning against nationalist sentiment around the globe. "It is here that we remember that, even when hatred burns hottest, even when the tug of tribalism is at its most primal, we must resist the urge to turn inward," Obama said in a speech. "We must resist the urge to demonize those who are different." -CNN Trump Tower Evacuated Over Suspicious BackpackThe public lobby of Trump Tower was briefly evacuated on Tuesday afternoon after an unattended backpack was discovered, leading to a momentary panic. The NYPD bomb squad found the bag was full of children's toys and gave the all-clear around 5 PM. -AP Montana Officials Denounce White Supremacist MarchTop public officials in Montana, including the governor, the attorney general, and the state's two senators and one representative, have issued a joint statement to denounce an anti-Semitic march planned by a white supremacist group. "Rest assured, any demonstration or threat of intimidation against any Montanan's religious liberty will not be tolerated," the statment reads. The Daily Stormer website announced plans to hold a march in the city of Whitefish in January "against Jews (and) Jewish businesses." –CBS News US Prosecutors Charge Chinese Citizens with Corporate HacksThree Chinese citizens have been charged in the US of profiting off corporate secrets obtained in hacks. Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York say Iat Hong of Macau, Bo Zheng of Changsha, and Chin Hung of Macau made more than $4 million in stock trades based on information obtained in hacks into a law firm that did business with Intel. Hong was arrested in Hong Kong, but the other two men are not in custody. -Reuters Bomb Attack in Kabul Leaves Politician WoundedA bomb attack in the Afghan capital of Kabul injured Fakori Behishti, one of the country's members of parliament. The MP's son and several others were also injured in an attack targeting the vehicle Behishti was traveling in. No group has yet claimed responsibility. -Reuters Former Argentinian President Faces Corruption ChargesThe former Argentinian president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, two of her former aides, and the head of a construction company have all been charged with corruption. They are alleged to have been involved in a scheme to give Lazaro Baez's company government contracts. A federal judge also ordered $633 million worth of Fernández's assets be frozen. –BBC News Romanian President Rejects Muslim as PMRomanian president Klaus Iohannis has refused a Muslim candidate for prime minister put forward by the Social Democrats (PSD), the party that won December's parliamentary election. President Iohannis gave no reason for his decision to turn down Sevil Shhaideh, who would have been Romania's first Muslim and first female prime minister. –Al Jazeera Train Crash in Northern India Leaves Two DeadAt least two people were killed and 38 others injured when a train was derailed close to Kanpur in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Two of those badly wounded in the crash later died, according to a police officer. The cause of the crash was not immediately known. –AP Star Wars Alumni Lead Carrie Fisher TributesThe team behind Star Wars have led tributes to actress Carrie Fisher, who has died at the age of 60 days after suffering a heart attack. George Lucas said, "In Star Wars she was our great and powerful princess." Harrison Ford described her as "funny and emotionally fearless. She lived her life, bravely." Mark Hamill tweeted: "No words #Devastated." –Sky News Arkansas Police Want Amazon Echo Audio in a Murder InvestigationAn Arkansas police force has asked Amazon to provide them with any recordings made by an Amazon Echo speaker owned by a suspect in a murder investigation. The listening device belongs to James Andrew Bates, accused of strangling Victor Collins while the victim was staying at Bates's home. The Echo is designed to always be listening for its "wake word," after which it records audio and sends it to the cloud so any spoken commands can be deciphered. –USA Today Scarlett Johansson Top-Grossing Star of 2016Scarlett Johansson has topped Forbes's annual list of the world's highest-grossing actors. Her 2016 movies, including Captain America: Civil War and Hail, Caesar!, brought in $1.2 billion at the global box office. –Forbes "Garcia" Sixth Most Common Surname in the USA new report by the US Census Bureau show that six of the 20 most common last names in the US now have Hispanic or Latino origin. "Garcia" is the country's sixth most common surname, according to the last census. "Smith" and "Johnson" remained the most popular surnames. –VICE News Tyler, the Creator's Original MySpace Page DiscoveredA Reddit user has found Tyler, the Creator's old music MySpace page. It contains six early songs recorded back in 2008. The rapper and producer's MySpace music page was called "I Smell Panties." -Noisey North Korea Gets Its Own TabletResearchers at the Chaos Communication Congress, a hacking festival, have revealed details of a new North Korean tablet PC called Woolim. The "locked down" device uses bespoke software to track users and limit the distribution of media online. -Motherboard