The computer was jointly ownedby Huma Abedin and estranged husbandAnthony Wiener  The computer was jointly ownedby Huma Abedin and estranged husbandAnthony Wiener  The fallout from the surprise announcement on Friday that the FBI had obtained “pertinent” emails related to Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state continued over the weekend. Here’s what’s happening: The Department of Justice and FBI officials are working to secure a warrant to search the computer shared by disgraced former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner and his estranged wife and Clinton aide Huma Abedin, CNN reports. At the moment, because officials don’t have a warrant that is specific to Abedin, they can only review emails sent and received by Weiner.  FBI agents investigating Clinton’s use of a private server during her tenure as secretary of state reportedly knew that the emails existed but waited weeks before informing FBI Director James Comey, sources familiar with the case told the Washington Post. It’s not clear why the agents waited.  Meanwhile, Comey has been contacting top Democrat and Republican members of Congress to brief them on the discovery of new emails, ABC News reports. A spokesperson for House Speaker Paul Ryan wouldn’t comment on whether he had been briefed by Comey on the matter, according to ABC News. He did, however, address the discovery at an event in Nevada.  The fallout from the surprise announcement on Friday that the FBI had obtained “pertinent” emails related to Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state continued over the weekend. Here’s what’s happening: The Department of Justice and FBI officials are working to secure a warrant to search the computer shared by disgraced former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner and his estranged wife and Clinton aide Huma Abedin, CNN reports. At the moment, because officials don’t have a warrant that is specific to Abedin, they can only review emails sent and received by Weiner.  FBI agents investigating Clinton’s use of a private server during her tenure as secretary of state reportedly knew that the emails existed but waited weeks before informing FBI Director James Comey, sources familiar with the case told the Washington Post. It’s not clear why the agents waited.  Meanwhile, Comey has been contacting top Democrat and Republican members of Congress to brief them on the discovery of new emails, ABC News reports. A spokesperson for House Speaker Paul Ryan wouldn’t comment on whether he had been briefed by Comey on the matter, according to ABC News. He did, however, address the discovery at an event in Nevada.  “For the young people here who didn’t live in the ’90s… this is what life is like with the Clintons,” Ryan told the audience. “It’s scandal after scandal after scandal.” Comey sent a letter to Congress Friday saying that agents had stumbled across emails linked to Clinton during a separate investigation into Wiener’s underage sexting scandal. Wiener and Abedin had multiple devices they shared, including an iPad and a laptop computer.  The announcement, made 11 days before Election Day, provoked anger from Clinton’s campaign and supporters but also among some former prosecutors and DOJ officials who said FBI investigations should remain secret until they are concluded. Others defended Comey for being transparent about the discovery, rather than keeping it secret until after the election. Two former senior Justice Department officials, a Democrat and a Republican, co-wrote an op-ed in the Washington Post accusing Comey of “damaging democracy.”  Six out of 10 likely voters said that Comey’s announcement hasn’t changed their view of Clinton. Three in 10 said it made them less likely to vote for her, according to a new Washington Post/ ABC News poll.