Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Clinton Targets Red States as Lead in Polls GrowsHillary Clinton leads Donald Trump 47 percent to 38 percent in a four-way race among likely voters, according to the latest CBS poll. Two weeks ago, Clinton's lead was four points in the same poll. A confident Clinton campaign is moving resources into red states like Arizona, where an additional $2 million has been allocated for ads.—CBS News/AP Trump Accuses Ryan of Wanting His Campaign to FailDonald Trump has been beefing with Paul Ryan on and off for a while now, and said Monday night the House speaker may not want him to win the presidential election. "Well, maybe not, because maybe he wants to run in four years or maybe he doesn't know how to win," Trump said. The GOP nominee's supporters chanted "Paul Ryan sucks" before Trump arrived at a campaign event in Wisconsin.—ABC News Houston Man Pleads Guilty to Trying to Help ISISA 24-year-old Iraqi refugee accused of plotting bomb attacks at two malls in Houston, Texas, has pleaded guilty to trying to help ISIS. Omar Faraj Saeed Al Hardan, who moved to the US in 2009, said in his plea deal that he pledged loyalty to ISIS in late 2014 and quickly took to learning how to use tactical weapons to carry out an attack.—CBS News  One Killed, Four Wounded in Chicago ShootingA total of five people were shot, one of them fatally, on Chicago's South Side Monday night. One of the wounded was a 13-year-old boy, who suffered critical injuries. The five victims were posted up outside in the West Englewood neighborhood at about 8:50 PM when multiple shooters unloaded as many as 40 rounds, cops and neighbors said.—Chicago Tribune Iraqi Forces Make Progress in Mosul OffensiveIraqi government and Kurdish forces are plowing ahead in their effort to retake the key city of Mosul from ISIS. Some 20 villages were seized from militants surrounding the city, and the Kurdish Peshmerga said it had secured "a significant stretch" of the 50-mile road between Erbil, their capital, and Mosul.—Reuters Judge Who Handled Cartel Cases Murdered in MexicoA federal judge who played a key role in cartel cases has apparently been assasssinated near Mexico City. Vicente Antonio Bermudez Zacarias, 37, was reportedly shot in the head while exercising outside his home in Metepec.—Al Jazeera Hospital Fire Kills at Least 20 in IndiaSome 20 people are dead after a fire broke out at a hospital in the Indian city of Bhubaneswar in Odisha State. State health secretary Arati Ahuja said the blaze, suspected to have been caused by an electrical short circuit, had left more than 100 people injured. "The tragedy is mind-numbing," tweeted PM Narendra Modi.—BBC News British Bank Shuts Down Russian Broadcaster AccountsBritish bank NatWest is closing the accounts of Russian Today, a state-run broadcaster, inside the UK. Russian MPs and the foreign ministry condemned the move, accusing the British government of violating press freedom. The UK Treasury said it had nothing to do the closure of the accounts.—The Guardian/CNBC Billy Bush Leaves NBC After Trump TapeBilly Bush is out at NBC's Today show, "effective immediately," in the wake of the leaked 2005 tape in which Donald Trump talked about groping women. The move was not unexpected, though during her CNN interview with Anderson Cooper Monday, Melania Trump said Bush "egged on" her husband to make the comments, which she described as mere "boy talk."—CNN WikiLeaks Says Ecuador Cut Assange's Internet AccessControversial antisecrecy outfit WikiLeaks has confirmed the Ecuadorean government cut figurehead Julian Assange's internet access at his residence in the country's London embassy. WikiLeaks has "activated appropriate contingency plans" after service was cut at 5 PM local time on Saturday.—TIME Target Pulls Clown MasksThe retail giant has decided to pull some creepy clown masks from its stores and website due to the "current environment"—which is to say a weird nationwide spike in reports of threats and pranks involving people dressed as clowns.—USA Today Netflix Subscriber Numbers Soar Netflix added 3.2 million international customers in the last three months, far more than the 2 million the company had predicted. In the US, subscriber numbers rose almost 400,000, helping Netflix's stock trade up about 20 percent Monday.—VICE News Silicon Valley Is Cutting Ties with Peter ThielDiversity initiative Project Include has cut ties with startup incubator Y Combinator, citing its employment of Donald Trump's financial backer, Peter Thiel, as an investor. Co-founder Ellen Pao said Thiel had made "a direct contribution to creating hate."—Motherboard Dylan Is Still Ghosting the Nobel Prize Committee Bob Dylan has yet to let the Nobel Prize committee know if he'll be attending the awards ceremony and dinner in December. "If he doesn't want to come, he won't come," said committee secretary Sara Darius.—Noisey