Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.   Photo by Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg via Getty  Mexican President Disputes Trump's Wall ClaimsDonald Trump has repeatedly promised to build "a great wall" along the US-Mexico border and insisted Mexico will pay for it, "100 percent." But on Wednesday, Trump said he did not discuss who will pay for the wall during his high-profile meeting with Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto. Nieto, however, said on Twitter that they did discuss it and that he "made clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall." —CNN  About 8.4 Million Americans Use Marijuana RegularlyPot is more popular than ever, according to a new study in the Lancet Psychiatry. The number of daily or near-daily marijuana users rose from 3.9 million in 2002 to 8.4 million 2014. As for plain old marijuana users—defined here as anyone who has used pot in the past year—the number went from 21.9 million to 31.9 million.—CBS News  Democrats Used Black Lives Matter Cheat Sheet Democrat lawmakers were given their very own "do's and don'ts" cheat sheet on dealing with Black Lives Matter activists, according to a memo obtained and leaked by hacker Guccifer 2.0. It warns not use the phrase "all lives matter" and advises Democrats to "listen to their concerns" but not to "offer support for concrete policy positions." —VICE News  Former Atlanta Cop Indicted in Fatal ShootingFormer Atlanta police officer James Burns has been indicted by a grand jury for the June killing of an unarmed black man named Deravis Caine Rogers. Burns was charged with felony murder, aggravated assault, making a false statement, and violating the oath of office for allegedly firing into Roger's car, even though he had no way of knowing whether the car contained the suspect he was looking for. —NBC News  Security Forces Storm Opposition HQ in GabonGabonese security forces have stormed the headquarters of defeated presidential candidate, Jean Ping. His supporters have staged protests in the capital Libreville since official election results on Saturday gave President Ali Bongo a narrow victory. Ping said two people had been killed in the assault. —Al Jazeera   Brazilian Senate Removes Rousseff from OfficeBrazil's Senate has voted to oust President Dilma Rousseff from office for manipulating the nation's budget. Michel Temer has been sworn in as president after 61 senators voted in favor of her dismissal and 20 against. Supporters of Rousseff clashed with police in São Paulo while protesting her impeachment. —VICE News  Tibet's Communist Chief Wants Stronger Criticism of Dalai LamaChina's newly appointed Communist Party chief of Tibet, Wu Yingjie, has called for stronger condemnation of exiled spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, signaling Beijing's hardening stance against the Buddhist figurehead. According to official state media, Wu said the government should "deepen its criticism of the Dalai Lama." —Reuters  Spanish Prime Minister Loses VoteMariano Rajoy, Spain's acting prime minister, has lost a parliamentary bid for a second term in office. Rajoy, leader of the conservative Popular Party, won the backing of only 170 representatives in the 350-strong assembly, failing to win support from the opposition. The vote makes it likely that Spain will have a third election in 12 months. The country hasn't had an elected government since December. —CBC News  Apple Boss Wants Tax Ruling OverturnedApple's chief executive, Tim Cook, has described a European Commission ruling that the company should pay $13 billion in back taxes as "maddening." Cook said he was "very confident" the ruling could be overturned by legal appeal. —BBC News  'Stranger Things' Gets Second SeasonNetflix has announced that the Duffer Brothers' show will return for a nine-episode second season in 2017. It will be set in 1984 and events will partly take place outside Hawkins, Indiana.— VICE  Court Upholds Ban on Gun Sales to Marijuana Users A federal appeals court in San Francisco has ruled that a ban on the sale of guns to holders of medical marijuana cards doesn't violate the Second Amendment. The court decided marijuana "raises the risk of irrational or unpredictable behavior." —AP  Naked Donald Trump Statue Up for Grabs at AuctionThe only surviving nude Donald Trump statue will be auctioned off in Los Angeles this October. The auction house said the work by art collective INDECLINE is expected to go for anywhere between $10,000 and $20,000. —VICE  Dark Web Marketplace Bans FentanylDarknet Heroes League (DHL), one of the dark web's key marketplaces, has banned sales of fentanyl after a wave of deaths caused by the drug. An administrator described the drug as a "threat to customers' well-being." —Motherboard  Confidence in Jobs Market SoarsThe latest figures show the labor market in good health, as applications for unemployment benefits remained under 300,000. Consumer confidence in the jobs market climbed to its highest point since 2008. —VICE News  Get the VICE App on iOS and Android