Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.   Photo by Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images  Obama Thinks the 9/11 Bill Is a 'Dangerous' MistakePresident Obama said Congress has made a "mistake" by overriding his veto and passing a bill that allows families to sue Saudi Arabia over the 9/11 attacks. He said the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism legislation would set a "dangerous precedent," inviting people overseas to sue the US government.—The New York Times  Elections Databases Hacked in Ten States A total of about ten states across the US have had their election databases probed or breached by hackers, according to law enforcement officials, a higher number than previously thought. Although the group or groups responsible have not been revealed, government officials believe Russia is trying to influence the US election.—CBS News  Teachers Praised for Saving Lives at School ShootingA teacher and two young students were injured when a 14-year-old allegedly opened fire at a South Carolina elementary school Wednesday afternoon. Teachers have been praised for putting the school in lockdown so quickly and preventing the shooter from getting inside classrooms. The suspect's father was later found dead in his home.—NBC News  California Ends Statute of Limitations for Rape CasesCalifornia governor Jerry Brown has signed a bill to end the statute of limitations for rape. The measure, inspired by the rape accusations against Bill Cosby, undoes a current law that prevents prosecution if the incident happened more than ten years ago. It takes effect January 2017, but will not work retroactively, so it will not be a factor in the case against Cosby.—Reuters  Six Killed As Airstrikes Hit Two Aleppo HospitalsAt least six people were killed in airstrikes on two hospitals in rebel-controlled Aleppo, the city being bombarded by Syrian and Russian forces. One warplane targeted both hospitals, according to the Syrian American Medical Society. UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon warned that any attack on a medical facility was a war crime.—Al Jazeera  Fifteen Rescued, 32 Still Missing in China Landslide Rescuers have pulled 15 people alive from a landslide in Sucun in China's eastern Zhejiang Province. But 32 people are still missing there and in another village nearby, after heavy rains from Typhoon Megi triggered two major landslides in the province on Wednesday.—Reuters  Sudanese Government Accused of Using Chemical WeaponsDozens of children in Darfur have allegedly been killed by chemical weapons dropped on them by the Sudanese government, according to Amnesty International. At least 200 people are estimated to have been killed by the banned weapons this year as conflict between the Sudanese government and rebels in Darfur continues.—BBC News  Pepe the Frog Meme Declared Symbol of HateThe cartoon Pepe the Frog meme has been added to the Anti-Defamation League's list of hate symbols. The ADL's CEO Jonathan A. Greenblatt said "racists and haters" had "taken a popular internet meme and twisted it."—CNN  More Internet Searches for Alicia Machado Than Kim KardashianGoogle searches for former Miss Universe Alicia Machado spiked 5,380 percent since Hillary Clinton name-checked her at the first debate because Donald Trump called her "Miss Piggy." More people have searched for Machado than Kim Kardashian since Monday night.—Buzzfeed News  Alec Baldwin Cast as Trump on 'SNL'Alec Baldwin will debut his Donald Trump impression on Saturday Night Live this weekend, a role he is expected to play for the entire season. Earlier this year, Baldwin called Trump "the first candidate made of hate."—The Hollywood Reporter  The Planet Has Already Passed the Carbon Tipping PointHuman beings have pushed atmospheric carbon levels past 400 parts per million, a dreaded tipping point feared by climate scientists. The Scripps Institution of Oceanography said we won't see levels fall below 400 parts per million "ever again."—Motherboard  US Teen Birth Rate Falls to Record LowThe teen birth rate in the US fell for a seventh year in a row in 2015, hitting a record low, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC credited less teen sex, better birth control use, and more education.—VICE News  Majority of Tinder Users Are Looking for LoveA new study published by the University of Sydney's Dr. Mitchell Hobbs shows Tinder users are interested in finding love. A survey found 72 percent of the app's users were looking for monogamous relationships.—VICE