A number of artists, labels, and venues across the country are throwing fundraiser initiatives in the wake of the fatal Ghost Ship fire in Oakland this weekend, which left at least 36 people dead. These include benefit shows featuring local and more well-known artists, and a number of fundraisers connected to music sales. The YouCaring Fire Relief Fund for Victims of Ghostship Oakland Fire has currently raised $252,984 of its $350,000 goal; local professional sports teams including the Golden State Warriors and the Oakland Raiders have announced that they'll match donations to the fund. In Oakland, there is a fundraiser this Thursday at The Golden Bull, and another planned at the Independent Brewing Company on Saturday, December 17. Deep Dive Oakland is hosting a memorial dance on Thursday. San Francisco venue Mezzanine is in the process of organizing an event to be held on Sunday, December 11, while SoMa venue The Endup will host one this Thursday. In New York City, Discwoman affiliate Bearcat has put together a benefit this Wednesday, December 7 featuring sets from Venus X, LSDXOXO, and SHYBØI. The next day, art space House of Yes will host a fundraiser on its premises in East Williamsburg, featuring two rooms of DJs yet to be announced. Next Friday, December 16, Fake Accent is hosting a fundraiser for Oakland called QUAKE. The next day, Ridgewood venue The Woods will host a benefit with live music, food, drinks, and art for sale. Meanwhile, Kimya Dawson will play a benefit in Emeryville, California on Wednesday. Influential Denver DIY venue Rhinoceropolis will also host a benefit show on Saturday, December 17, with the lineup still to be decided. Similar events will be held in Philadelphia, Santa Rosa, Duluth, and Toronto. Los Angeles currently has numerous events planned. CyberSonicLA will collect donations at The Lash tonight, Restless Nites will throw a fundraiser on Friday in Downtown, and Eagle Rock has a benefit planned Saturday at a bowling alley. Private Selection will collect and match donations for their NGLY show Friday night. Highland Park venue The Hi Hat says they have a benefit in the works. Artists and labels are also putting together plans to help out. $1 of every $10 spent on Brooklyn label RVNG Intl's webstore and Bandcamp will go to the YouCaring fund, and almost almost everything in its catalogue has been marked 20% off. Indie rock label K Records is currently raising funds for the relief effort by selling a collection of three singles by Joey Casio, who is still reported missing. Chicago imprint Lillerne Tapes is donating 100% of proceeds from sales of its in-stock catalogue to the fire relief fund. East Bay Tapes, Indole Records, and Heavy Mess will also do the same thing for the rest of 2016. Imprints including Optimo Music, Flexxseal, and Templo will also be donating all proceeds from music sales for the rest of the week. CGI Records and DKA Records are doing a pay-what-you-want system on Bandcamp and donating all the proceeds. Meanwhile, there is new Technofeminism merch for sale on the Discwoman webstore; 20% of sales this week go to Oakland relief. Bay Area musician Madeline Kenney has recorded a Sibylle Baier cover for the fire benefit, while Jonwayne is selling a highly limited test pressing on eBay in support of the fund. All proceeds from the sales of Nightmom music on Bandcamp will go to the parents of bandmember Nick Gomez-Hall, who was identified by authorities as one of the victims of the fire. Follow Alexander on Twitter.