A photo posted by Frances Cannon (@frances_cannon) on  The shock was visceral. Around 8:30 PM on Tuesday night many Americans saw the New York Times' estimate of Hillary Clinton's chances of being elected president of the United States drop like a rock. The rest of the night was filled with denial, booze, and then sleep. In the morning, Instagram was full of angry GIFs, memes, and artwork penned in a fit of confusion and rage. A shirt that had proudly read, "The Future Is Female," was posted again, with the word "Female" crossed out in red lipstick and replaced with "Fucked." Many blacked out their Instagrams, the simplest way to communicate the short circuit of logic that failed to win the presidential election. After rage and confusion, the only thing left is to move forward. That's the idea of Frances Cannon's illustration above. "I feel like we need this right now," she writes in the post description. "I drew this on the train after I chatted with a homeless woman named Amy who is 12 weeks pregnant. She gave me a hug after I gave her what was in my wallet and I said 'I'm so sorry life is so shit right now.' I'm not saying this to get complimented. I'm saying this because it's so easy to get caught up in our own lives. And the thing is we have to look out for each other." While, "Support Each Other in Times of Trouble" is the overarching rule we'll be sticking to by continuing to uplift young creatives and examine the unfolding of modern communication through art, now is also a time for introspection. This essay by Emmett Rensin has particularly affected me. Supporting each other doesn't just mean supporting those who look and think and talk like us, but being empathetic to our whole country, our whole planet. "We need to look after the invisible people. We need to stick together and to fend off hatred," Cannon continues in her Instagram post. It's time to figure out what that means.    A photo posted by Frances Cannon (@frances_cannon) on  A photo posted by Frances Cannon (@frances_cannon) on   Follow Frances Cannon here, and check out The Creators Project's Instagram feed to find more exciting young artists. Related: We Asked a VR Meditation Expert How To Stay Calm Kim Chi Emoji Are Here to Make America Glamorous Again Post-Election Hangover