Photo by Kevin Poh via Flickr  Flailing and unpopular celebrity fascist Donald Trump hasn't had much luck booking acts to perform at his upcoming presidential inauguration. But today he is celebrating his success after it was announced that the storied New York dance troupe the Rockettes will be joining the bill, along with nursing home fan favorites the Mormon Tabernacle Choir.  After weeks of failing to find any notable performers willing to take the gig—those who have turned down the opportunity include Garth Brooks, Elton John, Celine Dion, and Andrea Bocelli—the Trump inauguration committee figured out that all they had to do was book an act where the performers were contractually obligated to do what their company owners required.  "We are honored that the Rockettes have again been asked to perform in the upcoming inauguration festivities," James L. Dolan, executive chairman of the Madison Square Garden Company, which owns the Rockettes, said in a statement. Trump inaugural committee spokesman Boris Epshteyn confirmed the news to the  New York Times, although he did not comment on whether the troupe had offered to perform. Dolan, you may remember, is no stranger to strong-arming his way into high-profile gigs: Two years ago, along with releasing a terrible gotta-hear-both-sides blues song about George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin, he booked his own band, JD & The Straight Shot, to open for The Eagles at Madison Square Garden. It was no doubt a performance for the ages.  Naturally, not all the Rockettes are happy about being coerced into performing for a man who has been repeatedly accused of sexual misconduct and has promised to roll back women's reproductive rights as soon as he enters office. One dancer, Phoebe Pearl, wrote about her dismay in a since-deleted Instagram post, as reported by Perez Hilton. She stated:  One dancer also reportedly reached out to the union that represents the Rockettes, the American Guild of Variety Artists, asking if it would be possible to boycott the performance. The AGVA responded by saying the dancers are contractually obligated to perform. In a letter obtained by Broadwayworld.com, a union representative wrote:  The letter notes that all full time dancers—which TheWrap reports include 12 of the company's 36 dancers under contract—will be required to participate. The writer adds, "It is a job, and all of you should consider it an honor, no matter who is being sworn in. The election is over and this country will not survive if it remains divided." An anonymous individual who works for the Rockettes told TheWrap, ""Forcing dozens of women to go and perform for this man is without a question going to be problematic." So there you have it: Donald Trump finally got performers for his inauguration by forcing them to participate under threat of losing their jobs, setting a great and in no way troubling precedent for the years ahead. Trump, who is clearly in no way bothered by the fact that no celebrities like him and is definitely not taking any of this personally at all, definitely not, no sir, tweeted last night that the "so-called 'A-List' celebrities are all wanting tix to the inauguration" but that he wants "the PEOPLE" there instead. So if you don't see any famous people at the ceremony it's because, uh, they couldn't get in. Anyway, the Rockettes will be joining previously announced performer Jackie Evancho, a 16-year-old former  America's Got Talent runner-up. UPDATE 12:23 PM ET: The Hollywood Reporter received the following comment from the Madison Square Garden Company addressing the claim that Rockettes will be forced to participate in the inauguration: Meanwhile, people in the entertainment community such as Patton Oswalt and Paul Feig have weighed in, while activist Amanda Duarte encouraged the Rockettes to protest and offered to set up a GoFundMe account for any dancers who are fired. Follow Kyle Kramer on Twitter.