The pre-game is usually the chillest part of the night. You listen to music, kick back with some drinks, and take a moment to catch up with friends before the loud music at the club makes that impossible. Miami-born, New York-based DJ and producer Jubilee is turning her pre-game routine into a biweekly THUMP podcast, where she plays her favorite new music, hangs out with friends, and asks them to share what they've been working on and listening to. Starting today, you can tune in every two weeks for an intimate chat with some of the DJs, producers, music writers, vocalists, rappers, and other club world personalities whose disparate perspectives, cultural backgrounds, and unique sounds comprise the unique melting pot that is New York's club scene. The city has a deep history of dance music—the Pre-Game is about the people who keep it alive. For the third episode of the podcast, Jubilee unearths an archived session recorded the day after the election. Though it was a day when no one really wanted to go anywhere or do anything, the show went on. Joined by special guest Nick Hook, who just released his stellar debut album on Fools Gold, the longtime friends decided to change up the podcast's usual format and simply use conversation as therapy. Over the course of 90 minutes, they reminisced about the time they first met, musicians they both are friends with, as well as how they remember DJing back in earlier days of NYC club life. Before Jubilee spun a short set of unsurprisingly hot tracks and exclusive remixes, the pair also touched on Nick's recently released LP, Relationships, and discussed how some of the songs came to be. As a special bonus, they also narrated an episode of Planet Earth 2. Check it out below. Download The-Pregame Episode Three on iTunes TRACKLIST:Mura Masa ft A$AP Rocky - Love$sick (Mumdance Remix feat. Riko)Jeremih - Don't Hurt Me (Atro Fukup)DJ MacKeeper - Pipe PSIGriff & Booman - Who's in the House (Starks and Nacey Dub)Tony Good s- Pizza TrackFlorentino - SienteloMaelstrom - QUKTCH (The Exaltics Remix)Drake - Fake Love (Brenmar and Franco Remix)Princess Nokia- Tomboy (Nire Remix)