Donald J. Trump is currently in the process of hand-picking his cabinet for his presidency of the United State of America, and let's just say he's decorating it like he would one of "his" "luxury" hotels: horrifyingly. Among the (alt-)right illuminati that are rumored to be on deck—including his announcement of Reince Priebus as Chief of Staff today—he is now considering former WWE (yes, the wrestling franchise) CEO Linda McMahon (married to, yes, Vince McMahon) for Secretary of Commerce (yes, that high of an office), according to sources of NBC Connecticut. Trump is known for his connection to the WWE and his friendship with the McMahons, having hosting WWE events at Trump Plaza, and also appearing in Wrestlemania VII and (kind of wrestling) in Wrestlemania 23. While it would be somewhat unfair to characterize McMahon as simply the former WWE CEO, her brief foray into office includes a year-long stint on the Connecticut Board of Education, which she had to forfeit due to her political activity for the republican party. She was considered a "mega donor" to Trump in this past election, and has thrown support behind Speaker Paul Ryan and Chris Christie in the past. McMahon also ran a failed campaign for senate in 2010. She later lost as the Republican nominee in 2012 for Connecticut's other senate seat. According to NBC Connecticut, in 2010: McMahon spent $50 million of her own money, more than any other candidate in that election, and secured 44 percent of the vote, while [Democrat Richard] Blumenthal spent $8.7 million, $2.5 million of which was his own money, and secured 54 percent of the vote. So we're looking at someone who not only spent six times the amount of money as her opponent on an election and still lost, but also oversaw WWE features like the incest-themed Beaver Cleavage segment and the outright racist character of Muhammad Hassan to potentially be in charge of stimulating our country's job creation, promoting sustainable economic growth, and improving standards of living for all Americans. Put me in a sleeper hold for four years, please.