Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Clinton Says Fake News Is a Dangerous 'Epidemic'In her first speech on Capitol Hill since the election, Hillary Clinton described the spread of fake news online as "an epidemic" and "a danger that must be addressed." Referring to the armed man who attacked a Washington, DC, pizzeria after reading a bogus conspiracy story, Clinton said "so-called fake news can have real-world consequences."—CBS News Fentanyl Company Bosses Accused of Bribing Doctors Former executives at a pharmaceutical company selling painkiller fentanyl have been arrested, accused of bribing doctors to prescribe an addictive fentanyl spray to non-cancer patients. Former CEO Michael Babich and six other executives of Insys Therapeutics were charged with conspiracy to commit racketeering.—VICE News Court Documents Suggest Political Ambitions for Facebook CEOLegal filings in a case brought by Facebook's minority investors hint that Mark Zuckerberg has prepared for a move into politics. The company's board approved a proposal allowing Zuckerberg to take a two-year leave to fulfill "a government position or office," without losing his perch atop the company—The Guardian Family of Wounded 14-Year-Old Accuse Cops of Unnecessary ForceAfter a 14-year-old boy was shot and critically injured by police, his family said other options "were available to law enforcement that were not pursued." The boy was hurt at Hug High School in Reno, Nevada, while allegedly threatening others with knives. The shooting is under investigation by Reno Police Department, and the boy remains in critical condition in hospital.—NBC News South Korean President Impeached, Suspended from Office The South Korean parliament voted to impeach President Park Geun-hye Friday, with 234 voting for the motion and only 56 against. The country's constitutional court now has 180 days to rule on whether Geun-hye, who has failed to recover from accusations of allowing a confidant too much influence, is out for good.—BBC NewsSyrian Civilians Flee Eastern Aleppo, Russia Claims Russian officials are suggesting rebels and civilians are pouring out of eastern Aleppo. The Russian military said that more than 8,000 civilians, including 3,000 children, have left those areas in the last 24 hours. Reports indicate that the fighting has not completely stopped.—Reuters Ghana Opposition Leader 'Confident' of Election VictoryNana Akufo-Addo claims voting figures seen by his New Patriotic Party show the opposition figure is the winner of Ghana's presidential election. The electoral commission has not yet released official results, and President John Mahama's party is refusing to concede.—Al Jazeera Marine Le Pen Wants to Block Education for Children of Illegal ImmigrantsMarine Le Pen, leader of France's far-right party Front National, has said the children of "illegal immigrants" should not be allowed free education in French schools. "No more playtime," she said. Le Pen's campaign manager later said she was referring only to immigrant families in France illegally, rather than all foreigners.—VICE News NASA Legend John Glenn Dies, Aged 95Former astronaut John Glenn, the first American to orbit Earth, has died at the age of 95. "The last of America's first astronauts has left us... On behalf of a grateful nation, Godspeed, John Glenn," said President Obama.—USA Today Trump to Stay Exec Producer on 'Celebrity Apprentice'Despite that whole becoming president thing, Donald Trump will remain an executive producer of Celebrity Apprentice when he takes office, and will reportedly still have a financial stake in the show. Arnold Schwarzenegger will host the NBC show when it returns next year.—Variety Taylor Swift and Zayn Malik Drop New 'Fifty Shades' TrackTaylor Swift has released her collaboration with Zayn Malik for the Fifty Shades Darker soundtrack—a song called "I Don't Wanna Live Forever." Swift, Sam Dew, and producer Jack Antonoff wrote the song.—Rolling StoneCanadian Prime Minister Releases Ice Hockey GameAn ice hockey video game made by Canadian PM Justin Trudeau has been released on code.org. Trudeau made the rudimentary game earlier this week at Shopify's Ottawa office at an event to promote coding.—Motherboard Michael Jordan Wins Legal Battle with Chinese CompanyMichael Jordan has won a four-year legal battle with a Chinese sportswear company over its use of his name. The Chinese Supreme Court ruled that Qiaodan Sports Co. showed "malicious intent" in using a translation of "Jordan" on its merchandise.—VICE News Fetty Wap Teams Up with Nicki Minaj on New TrackNew Jersey rapper Fetty Wap has released a new track featuring Nicki Minaj called "Like a Star." It follows Zoovier, the collection of 2016 tracks released last month and previews his sophomore album set to come in 2017.—Noisey