Here’s where things stand on all the state votes for legal marijuana  Here’s where things stand on all the state votes for legal marijuana  It’s a huge night for the future of marijuana in the United States. Nine states voted on ballot measures to legalize recreational or medical marijuana, and polling ahead of the election suggested all the measures could pass. The votes are still being counted in many states, but here’s where things currently stand: California (PASSED): In the biggest vote of a big evening, California voted to legalize recreational marijuana use by adults. The measure passed easily, with support from 56 percent of voters. The outcome creates a massive new marketplace projected to be worth more than $6 billion, and it could be a game-changer on the national level. Now that Cali has gone green, the entire nation could follow. Massachusetts (PASSED): The first state to legalize recreational marijuana on election night is Massachusetts. With two-thirds of the precincts in the state reporting, the measure has the support of 53 percent of the state’s voters, enough for the Associated Press to call the race. The state will join Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Alaska, and Washington, DC as places where it’s legal for adults over 21 to use marijuana. The new law will allow people over 21 to possess up to 10 ounces of pot in their homes — far more than any other state that has legalized weed. Nevada (PASSED): With 46 percent of precincts reporting, ABC News projects that the state’s proposal to legalize recreational marijuana will pass. The measure, which will allow all adults over 21 to possess, consume, and grow marijuana, currently has the support of 54 percent of voters. It’s a huge night for the future of marijuana in the United States. Nine states voted on ballot measures to legalize recreational or medical marijuana, and polling ahead of the election suggested all the measures could pass. The votes are still being counted in many states, but here’s where things currently stand: California (PASSED): In the biggest vote of a big evening, California voted to legalize recreational marijuana use by adults. The measure passed easily, with support from 56 percent of voters. The outcome creates a massive new marketplace projected to be worth more than $6 billion, and it could be a game-changer on the national level. Now that Cali has gone green, the entire nation could follow. Massachusetts (PASSED): The first state to legalize recreational marijuana on election night is Massachusetts. With two-thirds of the precincts in the state reporting, the measure has the support of 53 percent of the state’s voters, enough for the Associated Press to call the race. The state will join Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Alaska, and Washington, DC as places where it’s legal for adults over 21 to use marijuana. The new law will allow people over 21 to possess up to 10 ounces of pot in their homes — far more than any other state that has legalized weed. Nevada (PASSED): With 46 percent of precincts reporting, ABC News projects that the state’s proposal to legalize recreational marijuana will pass. The measure, which will allow all adults over 21 to possess, consume, and grow marijuana, currently has the support of 54 percent of voters. Maine (LIKELY TO PASS): With 87 percent of precincts reporting, Maine’s proposal to legalize recreational marijuana is on pace to narrowly pass with 51 percent support. The initiative will “legalize, regulate, and tax marijuana in Maine as an agricultural product,” and allow the creation of “marijuana social clubs” where adults can get high together. Arizona (REJECTED): Fifty-two percent of Arizona voters rejected Proposition 205, which would have allowed adults to possess up to an ounce of weed and grow up to six plants in their homes.  Florida (PASSED): A measure dramatically expanding access to medical marijuana passed easily, receiving 71 percent support, far more than the 60 percent it needed to pass. The new law will allow people with PTSD, epilepsy, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, and a number of other debilitating conditions to use medical weed with a doctor’s prescription. North Dakota (PASSED): With nearly two-thirds of precincts reporting, the Bismarck Tribune declared that the state’s medical marijuana measure will pass; it’s on pace to finish with 63 percent support. The proposal legalizes medical marijuana for people with PTSD, epilepsy, and other serious conditions.  Arkansas (PASSED): Two major television networks in the state — KARK and KATV — say one of the two medical marijuana proposals on the ballot has enough support to pass. Issue 6, which will create dispensaries and allow doctors to prescribe weed, has 52 percent support with nearly 60 percent of precincts reporting.  Montana (LIKELY TO PASS): With 71 percent of precincts reporting, 56 percent of the state’s voters have cast ballots in support of amending the state’s existing medical marijuana law. The new law will make it easier for qualifying patients to get weed, allowing doctors to prescribe pot for chronic pain, PTSD, and other conditions.