The KKK is planning a victory parade for Trump in North Carolina  The KKK is planning a victory parade for Trump in North Carolina  While protestors in New York, Oregon, California, and other blue states are taking to the streets to rail against President-elect Donald Trump, a group of ardent Trump supporters is planning to celebrate by holding a victory parade. The Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, a chapter of the white supremacist group in Pelham, North Carolina, announced plans for a “Victory Klavalkade Klan Parade” in honor of Trump on Dec. 3.  The announcement was accompanied by a message on the group’s website that read “Trump = Trump’s Race United My People” and a picture of Trump surrounded by the words “President of the United States.”  According to the Anti-Defamation League, the Loyal White Knights are “perhaps the most active Klan group in the United States today,” with 150-200 estimated members. The organization says there are still “approximately 3,000 Klan members nationwide, as well an additional but unknown number of associates and supporters.” Trump, who called Mexicans rapists and criminals, proposed a ban on Muslims entering the U.S., and promised to deport millions of undocumented immigrants, received vocal support throughout his campaign from hate groups and white supremacist organizations. The KKK’s newspaper endorsed Trump, and former KKK leader David Duke said he was “100 percent behind” the Republican nominee. While protestors in New York, Oregon, California, and other blue states are taking to the streets to rail against President-elect Donald Trump, a group of ardent Trump supporters is planning to celebrate by holding a victory parade. The Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, a chapter of the white supremacist group in Pelham, North Carolina, announced plans for a “Victory Klavalkade Klan Parade” in honor of Trump on Dec. 3.  The announcement was accompanied by a message on the group’s website that read “Trump = Trump’s Race United My People” and a picture of Trump surrounded by the words “President of the United States.”  According to the Anti-Defamation League, the Loyal White Knights are “perhaps the most active Klan group in the United States today,” with 150-200 estimated members. The organization says there are still “approximately 3,000 Klan members nationwide, as well an additional but unknown number of associates and supporters.” Trump, who called Mexicans rapists and criminals, proposed a ban on Muslims entering the U.S., and promised to deport millions of undocumented immigrants, received vocal support throughout his campaign from hate groups and white supremacist organizations. The KKK’s newspaper endorsed Trump, and former KKK leader David Duke said he was “100 percent behind” the Republican nominee. Trump initially denied knowing anything about Duke and the KKK, but eventually, after repeated questioning about the issue, he declared that he would “totally disavow” their support. Duke later called Trump’s election “one of the most exciting nights of my life,” asserting, “Make no mistake about it: Our people have played a HUGE role” in the outcome. In the days since the election, there have been multiple reports of racist incidents involving Trump’s name and echoing language he used on the campaign trail.  The Loyal White Knights didn’t say exactly where they intend to hold the victory parade or provide any additional information about the event beyond what was mentioned on its website. A call to the phone number listed on the group’s site went straight to voicemail, and the message was not immediately returned. The group’s voicemail greeting, however, offered some insight into their ideology. “It’s about time we’ve put an end to this mess of Third World immigration into our white homelands,” the message said, quoting a Bible verse before continuing on the anti-immigrant tirade. “Think about it, whitey.” IMAGE CREDIT: A protestor holds up a sign referring to the KKK at a Donald Trump campaign rally in New Orleans March 4, 2016. REUTERS/Layne Murdoch Jr.