Hello! Here's what you need to know on Tuesday. 1. Democrat Hillary Clinton's lead in the US presidential race has narrowed slightly since the FBI said it was reviewing new emails. Real Clear Politics, which averages the results of most major polls, shows that Clinton's lead has declined from 4.6 points on Friday to 2.5 points on Monday. 2. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney will stay in his role until the end of June 2019. Following Britain's decision to leave the European Union, Carney has extended his term a further year, allowing him to remain governor until the point when the UK should formally have left the EU. 3. Nearly half of Russians fear that Moscow's bombing campaign in Syria could spark World War III. Russia, an ally of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad, has been staging bombing raids in Syria since September 2015. 4. There is rising concern among counterterrorism officials that the war machine encircling ISIS in Mosul, Iraq, is inadvertently spawning a jihadist alumni network in Southeast Asia and elsewhere, made up of fleeing militants seeking a safe haven in their home countries. 5. US Secretary of State John Kerry and UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson are hosting crisis talks with Libya's leaders in an attempt to ward off the collapse of the country's war-torn economy. The World Bank has said Libya's economy is near collapse as the civil war worsens and bank reserves plummet. 6. China's theme park market is set to become the world's largest by 2020, thanks to the country's growing middle class. 7. The woman at the center of a scandal roiling South Korea met prosecutors examining whether she used her close ties to President Park Geun-hye to pull government strings from the shadows and amass an illicit fortune. Choi Soon-sil is a cult leader's daughter with a decades-long connection to Park. 8. The UN Security Council agreed to press on with the deployment of a new UN mission for Colombia that will monitor a ceasefire until a final peace deal is reached. The council endorsed recommendations from UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to deploy 400 observers in Colombia. 9. China made a rare comment on a foreign election, rejecting a plan by US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump to back out of a global climate change pact, saying a wise political leader should make policy in line with global trends. 10. China unveiled a secretive stealth fighter in a flyby debut. The J-20 warplanes represent a leap forward in China's ability to project power in Asia. And finally ... Spectacular photos show how Hindus all over the world celebrate Diwali — the Festival of Lights.