Everybody knows that backroom deals are facilitated by a little booze. It's not surprising, then, that our nation's capital has plenty of swanky cocktail bars with highly competent bartenders whose job it is people drunk in a slightly more sophisticated way. As part of our MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, D.C., we've put together a list of the city's finest drinking establishments, from fancy hotel bars to underground speakeasies. The kind of places that can serve up soigné cocktails on a dime, so that you can get right down to business. Whether you're a D.C. power broker or on a Tinder date, these dimly lit cocktail joints will provide enough hydration and social lubrication to help you close whatever deal you have in mind—or, if you just want to get completely wrecked (out of despair or exhilaration) after the results of yesterday's election. Off the Record: Located in the basement of the Hay-Adams Hotel, Off The Record is bedecked in red and offers one of the most intimate spots in the city to drink and relax. As the name suggests, it's a place for secrets and hushed conversations, and there was a time when it wasn't uncommon to find a president or two having a drink there. These days, the crowd tends to be a bit younger and less famous (or infamous, depending on who we're talking about), but it remains, as the bar itself will tell you, a "place to be seen and not heard." Left Door: A small spot just off the strip on 14th street, Left Door is the latest project from Tom Brown, the brother of mixologist Derek Brown and a cocktail master in his own right. Unlike many other spots in this neighborhood, the Left Door aims to be a little calmer and a little more collected. Visitors can expect to find cocktails made with vintage champagne and chartreuse alongside upscale classics like Manhattans. Quill: The District has a great many hotel bars, but few provide the DC power broker–experience quite as well as Quill. With a dedicated in-house lounge pianist and parquet floors designed to mirror those in Thomas Jefferson's salon on his Monticello plantation, this is a suit-and-tie kind of cocktail bar catering to those looking for a more formal evening out. Expect seasonally rotating classic and signature cocktails, a long wine list, and a full dining menu served in a warmly lit but lively space. CopyCat Co.: A bi-level spot located on H Street, CopyCat has somehow managed to sandwich together a Chinese takeaway spot and an intimate cocktail bar into one location. Stay at street-level if you want beers and dumplings, and if you're looking for something a little fancier, head upstairs. The intimate bar is a surprising departure from what you might expect from a place with Chinese takeout. The Gibson: Located above The BBQ Joint on 14th street (with which it shares a kitchen and prep space), The Gibson is another member of the DC speakeasy scene. Accessible by an unmarked black door (which, FYI, has the numbers "2009" bolted into it), it's the kind of place where you can either order off a standard menu or fill out a card, on which you indicate what characteristics you like in a drink so the bartender can make you something tailored. The space is relatively large, with both indoor and outdoor seating, making it a bit easier to get into than some other DC cocktail spots. Don't let that fool you into thinking it's not special, though—the bartenders know what they're doing here. For our full list of recommendations of D.C.'s coolest cocktail joints, continue reading on the MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC.