A photo posted by Yng-Ru Chen (@yrc) on President Obama's latest bid for Coolest Commander in Chief Ever is a day-long arts, culture, and music festival in front of the White House dubbed South by South Lawn (SXSL). While the South by Southwest-inspired event's stated goal is to, "call on every American to roll up their sleeves and discover their own way to make a positive difference in our country," and "celebrate the inspiring work so many Americans have already accomplished," SXSL also offers a unique spotlight for illustrators in the form of temporary tattoo company Tattly. SXSL's artist presence includes a talk between James Turrell and David Adjaye, a screening of Leonardo DiCaprio's documentary about climate change, large-format polaroids by Chuck Close, live painting by David Garibaldi, LEGO sculptures by master builder Nathan Sawaya, and virtual reality experiences from The Guardian, MTV, and Yosemite National Park. These heavyweights are attracting a ton of attention, but the scrappy, independent company Tattly earns our attention for introducing the public to a smart and fun venue for illustrators to distribute their work.    A video posted by Yng-Ru Chen (@yrc) on   Artists Karen Steinecke, Hayden Davis, Julia Rothman, and Annica Lydenberg (Dirty Bandits) created unique Tattly designs for SXSL attendees, ranging from patriotic symbols like the Statue of Liberty to generally positive messages like "Optimism," which you can check out Chuck Close sticking to his skin above. Tattly's commitment to enlisting talented, professional artists and ability to turn around custom designs quickly is what sets them apart from other temporary tattoo groups. Founder Tina Roth Eisenberg uses safe, non-toxic ingredients and comissions professional artists for Tattly's designs, cutting them directly into the profits. It's an unorthodox art distribution method, but that's probably what got her company into SXSL. See more Tattly illustrations and work from Steinecke, Davis, Rothman, and Lydenberg below.  Loving this pic of the tattoo I drew for the Jessica Bennett's new book @feministfightclub. So proud to be a part of this project. You should really pick up a copy and #supportyourlocalgirlgang. # #feministfightclub #customtattly . . . #Repost @feministfightclub with @repostapp #supportyourlocalgirlgang  My contribution to the @emoji.book - drawn with crayon, pencil, Wite-out pen & red lipstick. This was a super fun project & I'm honored to be included along with so many talented artists of all kinds.  #emojibook #caturday #stellathecat  Reblogged from @swissmiss . Going shirtless for Tattly pt.II   finally framed these pieces yesterday! what better to go next to the atm machine at @111minnagallery in August for group show called #dialect  Today's an exciting day! We're here at the @whitehouse for #SXSL! We'll be roaming around the South Lawn until 4pm with a selection of #customtattly made especially for the event. See you there!! Hooray for our amazing artists @karensteinecke , @hayden__davis, @dirtybandits, & @juliarothman.  Feeling a lil' crafty? Pick up a Craft Knife Tattly by @hellopeagreen.  @jonburgerman's Happy Doodles are so bright and cheerful even his Sad Unicorn puts us in a good mood! Feeling drawn to them? Don't dawdle, grab your doodles today!  ​Learn more about SXSL here and follow Tattly here. Check out The Creators Project on Instagram for more innovative artistry. Related: GIF of the Year: Obama on a Skateboard How Virtual Reality Is Changing the Way the UN Thinks American Presidents, and the People Who Get Tattoos of Them | Monday Insta Illustrator