With hours to go until the polls close in many states, Donald Trump's campaign has already called into question the results of the election, suggesting the that election is rigged against him. Throughout Tuesday, the Republican presidential nominee's campaign sowed doubt about the legitimacy of election results, though there was scant evidence to support his claims. "Just out according to CNN: 'Utah officials report voting machine problems across entire country,'" Trump tweeted on Tuesday afternoon. CNN host Brian Stelter clarified that Utah officials reported problems with voting machines in one county, not the entire country. In an interview on Fox News, Trump said without citing specific evidence that problems with voting machines resulted in counting Republican votes as Democratic votes. "You have to look at what's happening," Trump said. "There are reports that when people vote for Republicans the entire ticket switches over to Democrats. You've seen that. It's happening at various places today, it has been reported. In other words, the machines — you put down a Republican, and it registers as a Democrat. They've had a lot of complaints about that today. You have to be careful. We have to see what it is." The Trump campaign has already taken legal steps to call into question election results. Earlier in the day, the campaign unsuccessfully attempted to compel Nevada to preserve information about who was working at a polling precinct that allowed voters already in line on Friday evening to cast their votes after the polls were scheduled to close. Trump campaign lawyer David Lee pleaded with the judge to allow the campaign access to the names of the poll workers. "We need to interview them, talk to them, to see exactly what went down. That's part of the process of discovery," Lee said. In an interview on MSNBC on Tuesday, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a top Trump adviser, said he did not trust the results from the precinct because of Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid's political power in Nevada. "Democrats call it paranoia, and Republicans call it reasonable suspicion," Giuliani said. "This is Harry Reid's home turf, and we don't exactly trust Harry Reid."