Beer. It's what's for dinner. We've all been there, right? …. Right? No matter how responsibly or irresponsibly we've been consuming it, millennials loved beer in 2016, sometimes to a fault. As much as we appreciate a fine brew, we've done some fucked up things to it—like stuffing a beer inside a dead squirrel, or bathing in it. Here are our favorite yeasty moments of 2016. First of all, that squirrel thing we mentioned? That actually happened. BrewDog sold these bottles of beer that were tucked inside taxidermied squirrel bodies. Oh, but it gets better: they sold them for $20,000 each, and the beer inside is 55 percent ABV. The real kicker, though, is that a dozen of these freaky furries sold out almost immediately. Then again, if you're looking for a more affordable way to use beer in an absurd manner, look no further than this beer spa in Oregon. A couple hundred bucks will get you a massage and a nice, long soak in a tub of microbrew. While most spas aim to remove toxins like alcohol from your body, this one preaches the skin-softening and relaxing benefits of hops. Here's a surefire way to be the coolest person at the party: show up with a six-pack of amber beer made out of human urine. Or, you know, don't. The Belgian scientists who invented the "Sewer to Brewer" beer claim it tastes good, and we're just gonna take their word for it. Where there's smoke, there's fire, and where there's heavy drinking, there was an anxiety-inducing presidential election that was taking over our lives this year. Enter this "beer wall" campaign: the ultimate clapback to Trump from a Mexican beer brand. Actually, lots of beer companies have been pledging their political allegiance this year, on both the left and the right. That's none of our business, though. *Sips beer.* Speaking of controversy, BrewDog—the same company that made squirrel beer a thing—pulled another stunt this year. Their "non-binary transgender beer" using "hops that have changed sex from female to male flowers prior to harvest." Um... OK. Cheers to surviving another year of beer madness.