Thomas Kinkade may forevermore be known as the Painter of Light, but red sauce raconteur Sean Berthiaume could very well go down in the annals of history as the genius who immortalized the sweater-clad darling of this election cycle that is Ken Bone, via pizza and some "Chic'Ken Bone' wings." For those of you who have inexplicably yet to hear of the singular source of wholehearted reprieve in what has otherwise been an abundantly bleak election chock full of vitriolic demagoguery, Kenneth Bone is the red-sweater-sporting undecided voter from Illinois who took the Internet by storm after his earnest on-screen demeanor this past Sunday led to his being crowned "the man who won the second presidential debate". Since then, Bone has been taken on a whirlwind media tour, depicted crossing the Delaware with George Washington, and commemorated in a ballad, all without changing out of his now-iconic sweater. But all that pales in comparison to the glorious homage created by Sean Berthiaume for the Brooklyn-based pizzeria he co-owns, Vinnie's Pizzeria. Vinnie's has steadily become =a neighborhood institution thanks to its unpretentious approach to pizza and uniquely hilarious specials created by Berthiaume. Earlier this year, Vinnie's got a fair amount of attention for creating an edible pizza box made entirely out of pizza. Yesterday, Vinnie's Pizzeria ran a special menu dedicated to Ken Bone that featured two brand new pizzas and one side dish. The menu is as follows: "PENNEth Bone" (penne noodles, ground beef, garlic, marinara, topped with mozzarella and ricotta cheese), "ProvoBONE" (shredded provolone, fresh mozz, portobello mushrooms, sun-dried tomato, and artichoke hearts)," and "ChicKen Bone," which is just regular chicken wings. Berthiaume told MUNCHIES, "The Ken Bones special came from just watching the debates and being able to tell that this guy was going to be a mini-star. Watching the debates, and everything else going on has been kind of a shit show, and everyone's angry all the time, and this guy popped up as this positive thing that people latched onto. I realized I had to make a special about this guy to do my part to do something positive and silly for people to look to in a dark time." As for the actual pizzas, Berthiaume says he came up with the ProvoBONE after the debate, and adds that he's previously done a pizza similar to the PENNEth Bone before, but never as a special. Forget Napoleon's Arc de Triomphe and Shah Jahan's Taj Mahal, is there any greater medium for memorialization than the undisputed nectar of the gods that is pizza? We salute you Kenneth Bone and so does Vinnie's.