Michelle Obama delivers raw rebuke to Donald Trump  Michelle Obama delivers raw rebuke to Donald Trump  Michelle Obama put aside her normal campaign talking points Thursday to address the growing Donald Trump sexual harassment scandal in an uncharacteristically raw speech. “I have to tell you that I can’t stop thinking about this,” the First Lady said, while stumping for Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire. “It has shaken me to my core in a way that I couldn’t have predicted.” Obama called Trump’s boasts of assaulting women, revealed on a 2005 tape of a conversation with Access Hollywood host Billy Bush, “disgraceful” and “intolerable,” arguing that it’s a pattern of behavior, not an isolated incident. “It’s one of countless examples of how he has treated women his whole life,” she said. “And I have to tell you that I listen to all of this and I feel it so personally, and I’m sure that many of you do too, particularly the women. The shameful comments about our bodies. The disrespect of our ambitions and intellect. The belief that you can do anything you want to a woman.” Some fans and pundits are calling it the most important speech of the election. Michelle Obama put aside her normal campaign talking points Thursday to address the growing Donald Trump sexual harassment scandal in an uncharacteristically raw speech. “I have to tell you that I can’t stop thinking about this,” the First Lady said, while stumping for Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire. “It has shaken me to my core in a way that I couldn’t have predicted.” Obama called Trump’s boasts of assaulting women, revealed on a 2005 tape of a conversation with Access Hollywood host Billy Bush, “disgraceful” and “intolerable,” arguing that it’s a pattern of behavior, not an isolated incident. “It’s one of countless examples of how he has treated women his whole life,” she said. “And I have to tell you that I listen to all of this and I feel it so personally, and I’m sure that many of you do too, particularly the women. The shameful comments about our bodies. The disrespect of our ambitions and intellect. The belief that you can do anything you want to a woman.” Some fans and pundits are calling it the most important speech of the election. President Barack Obama agreed with those assessments: “She was pretty good,” he joked in Ohio. “That’s why you get married. To improve your gene pool. Your kids end up being superior to you.”