Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. White House and Intel Agencies Prepare for Cyber AttacksSeveral US government agencies are reportedly working together to combat any attempts by Russian hackers to disrupt Election Day. Preparations have been coordinated by the White House and the Department of Homeland Security, but also include the CIA, NSA, and Defense Department. Officials say they are ready for attempts to disrupt the power grid or internet, and efforts to spread damaging misinformation about election results.—NBC Ne1ws Seventeen Anti-Pipeline Protesters Arrested in North Dakota CapitalPolice arrested 17 anti–Dakota Access Pipeline protesters for refusing to leave the governor's mansion and state capitol building in Bismarck. They now face criminal trespass charges.—AP Supreme Court Gives Alabama Man Stay of ExecutionThe US Supreme Court stayed the execution of 74-year-old Thomas Douglas Arthur in a dramatic intervention Thursday night. The state of Alabama was set to execute Arthur before Justice Clarence Thomas issued a temporary stay at about 10:30 PM—hours after the originally scheduled time.—VICE News Harvard Soccer Program Canceled for Sexually Explicit ListHarvard University has suspended its men's soccer team after the group was discovered to have complied some kind of list ranking the attractiveness of the women's soccer team. The document(s), uncovered by Harvard's student newspaper, included sexually explicit comments.—The Harvard Crimson Explosion in Turkey Kills At Least Eight After Kurd Leaders ArrestedAt least eight people were killed and 100 others injured in an explosion in Diyarbakir, a city in Turkey's mainly Kurdish southeast region, on Friday morning. The car bombing followed the overnight detention of several members of parliament representing Turkey's pro-Kurdish opposition party, the People's Democratic Party, as well as both of the party's co-leaders.—Reuters South Korean President Admits Mistakes in Cronyism ScandalSouth Korean president Park Geun-hye issued an emotional apology to her citizens in a national address, saying she will cooperate fully with probes into whether she allowed a friend too much political influence. "I put too much faith in a personal relationship and didn't look carefully at what was happening," Park admitted.—AP French Police Clear 3,000 Migrants from Paris CampFollowing the clearance of the "Jungle" migrant camp in Calais, French authorities cleared a migrant camp in Paris where more than 3,000 people had been sleeping. The migrants were moved from their tents near the Stalingrad station early Friday morning, then taken in buses to centers where asylum claims will be processed.—BBC News Hundreds Feared Dead After Mediterranean ShipwrecksAt least 240 people are feared dead after two rubber dinghies carrying refugees sank in the southern Mediterranean this week. The roughly 30 survivors, taken to Italian island of Lampedusa, said the dinghies had capsized in heavy seas after leaving the coast of Libya.—The Guardian Beyoncé to Appear at Jay-Z's Clinton Rally, Say ReportsBeyoncé will reportedly join her husband, Jay-Z, at a get-out-the-vote event for Hillary Clinton at Cleveland State University tonight. The rapper was scheduled to appear alongside the candidate at the rally in the crucial swing state of Ohio, where Trump is currently favored.—CBS News Megyn Kelly Claims Sexual Harassment by Roger AilesThe Fox News presenter has alleged in her forthcoming book that Roger Ailes, her ousted former boss, sexually harassed her a decade ago. Kelly claims Ailes grabbed her multiple times, tried to kiss her on the lips, and offered to help her career "in exchange for sexual favors."—CNN Eric Trump Says David Duke 'Deserves Bullet'Donald Trump's son Eric rebuked white supremacist and former KKK leader David Duke by saying he "deserves a bullet." He told KHOW radio, "These aren't good people. These are horrible people."—USA Today FBI Blames Trump and Clinton Tweets on Computer BugAn FBI official said the agency's Records Vault Twitter account automatically posted a series of links to documents on Donald Trump's father, Fred, and files the Clinton Foundation because of a bug in the FBI.gov content management system.—Motherboard 'Hamilton' Mixtape Features Chance the RapperHamilton creator Lin-Manuel Miranda has teased a mixtape of alternative versions of songs from the award-winning musical. The Hamilton Mixtape reportedly includes appearances from Chance the Rapper, Wiz Khalifa, Nas, Ashanti, and Ja Rule. —Noisey Canadian Spies Illegally Retained MetadataThe Canadian Security Intelligence Service ran a secret metadata-collection and retention program for a decade, a federal court ruling has revealed. The court said the data analysis program breached the spy agency's "duty of candour."—Motherboard