Recount efforts in key states are getting under the Trump team’s skin  Recount efforts in key states are getting under the Trump team’s skin  Donald Trump and his team are taking notice of a formal request to recount the vote in Wisconsin as well as efforts in two other key states that helped propel him to victory. The president-elect took to Twitter Saturday night and Sunday morning to decry the recounts, led by the Green Party’s Jill Stein and joined by Hillary Clinton’s campaign Saturday. Over the course of nine posts, Trump first called the recount process a “Green Party scam” before quoting Clinton’s response at the debates when asked whether she would accept the results of the election, regardless of the outcome, as well as her concession speech.  Trump’s senior advisor Kellyanne Conway also put out a statement in light of Clinton joining the Wisconsin recount. “What a pack of sore losers,” Conway wrote. “It turns out Team Hillary and their new BFF Jill Stein can’t accept reality.”  Donald Trump and his team are taking notice of a formal request to recount the vote in Wisconsin as well as efforts in two other key states that helped propel him to victory. The president-elect took to Twitter Saturday night and Sunday morning to decry the recounts, led by the Green Party’s Jill Stein and joined by Hillary Clinton’s campaign Saturday. Over the course of nine posts, Trump first called the recount process a “Green Party scam” before quoting Clinton’s response at the debates when asked whether she would accept the results of the election, regardless of the outcome, as well as her concession speech.  Trump’s senior advisor Kellyanne Conway also put out a statement in light of Clinton joining the Wisconsin recount. “What a pack of sore losers,” Conway wrote. “It turns out Team Hillary and their new BFF Jill Stein can’t accept reality.”  “The people have spoken,” she concluded. “Time to listen up. #YesYourPresident.”  In addition to Wisconsin, the Clinton campaign announced Saturday it would join any additional recount efforts in Pennsylvania and Michigan. Trump won those three states — which gave him 46 votes in the electoral college — with a combined total of 107,000 votes, Clinton’s counsel Mark Elias wrote in a detailed post on Medium. Clinton never campaigned in Wisconsin. Elias also noted the campaign had “quietly taken a number of steps in the last two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference in the vote tally.”  Stein initiated the recount efforts after a group of computer scientists and election lawyers noted statistically significant discrepancies between the number of votes cast electronically and paper ballots. Since the Clinton campaign had not found any “actionable evidence of hacking,” however, Elias explained they did not want begin a recount themselves. Stein raised over $6 million as of Sunday morning — up from $4.5 million on Thursday. She filed the formal recount request in Wisconsin Friday, and her campaign estimates the cost of a recount in all three states at $7 million.