Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Wild Upset as Donald Trump to Become 45th US PresidentDonald Trump defied almost all poll predictions to pull off a general election victory and become the president-elect of the United States. Speaking at his victory party in New York City, Trump said, "I pledge to every citizen of our land that I will be president for all Americans."—CNN Recreational Weed Legalized in at Least Three StatesIn a huge night for marijuana reform, voters in California, Massachusetts, and Nevada all voted to legalize recreational weed. Maine was also poised to pass a proposal to legalize it recreationally. Three other states—Florida, North Dakota, and Arkansas—passed measures to approve or expand the use of medical marijuana.—VICE News Republicans Retain Both House and SenateIn addition to winning the White House, Republicans retained control of both the House and the Senate Tuesday. Democrats needed a five-seat net gain to win control of the Senate, but failed in all but one of the hotly contested races. Although Speaker Paul Ryan won reelection to the House, Fox pundit (and Trump fan) Sean Hannity flatly predicted he "is not going to be the speaker of the House in January."—VICE News Gunman Dead After Shooting Spree in CaliforniaAn armed man opened fire in a residential neighborhood in Azusa, California, on Tuesday afternoon, killing a man and seriously injuring two women. The attacker was eventually shot dead by police in a gun battle after holing up at a neighborhood residence. Police said they believed the 45-year-old gunman had taken cocaine and was "shooting randomly at people."—Los Angeles Times Vladimir Putin Congratulates Trump on Shock WinThe Russian president some political observers thought was rooting for Donald Trump has reportedly sent him a telegram of congratulations, stating his "hope to work together for removing Russian American relations from their crisis state." —AP Global Markets Badly Shaken by Trump VictoryStocks fell sharply early Wednesday trading as investors around the world were spooked by Donald Trump's surprise victory. Japan's stock market index initially fell 919 points, and the FTSE 100 index fell 147 points after London markets opened, though Wall Street was doing better after the president-elect issued a victory speech focused on unity and stability.—The Guardian India Wants to Start Fresh on Big Rupee Notes India's government announced plans to take 500 and 1,000-rupee banknotes out of circulation overnight, leaving citizens until December 30 to exchange their money in a move designed to purge shady cash from the financial system. New large rupee notes were expected in the coming days.—Reuters Gunmen Kill 36 Miners in NigeriaGunmen killed 36 miners in a robbery of a gold mine in northern Nigeria, authorities said. One survivor, Isa Muhammad, said more than 50 gunmen raided the site in Zamfara State and stole the miners' possessions, and that some 20 people were missing.—AP Canadian Citizenship Site CrashesCanada's immigration and citizenship website crashed on Tuesday night as the prospect of Donald Trump winning grew increasingly likely. Actor Bryan Cranston was one of the many people who broached moving to Canada if Trump won.—The Hollywood Reporter Orlando Wants to Turn the Pulse Nightclub into a MemorialThe City of Orlando has hammered out a deal to buy the Pulse nightclub for $2.25 million and turn it into a lasting memorial to the 49 victims of the June massacre. The city council will vote Monday to decide whether to approve the deal.—VICE Alcohol Mostly Banned at 2022 World Cup in QatarQatari officials have announced a ban on all alcohol consumption "on the streets, squares, and public places" during the 2022 FIFA World Cup in the Gulf state. Hotels in the country are normally allowed to serve alcohol, but it is usually illegal to be drunk outside.—TIME Americans Stocked Up on Assault Rifles Prior to Election DayGun dealers reported a spike in sales of assault weapons in the weeks leading up to the election. The owner of Ace Firearms in Florida said anywhere from a third to a half of customers bought assault rifles out of fear of a Clinton presidency.—VICE/The Trace Classic SEGA Genesis Console Gets a ReissueFans of the SEGA Genesis, home of Sonic the Hedgehog, have reason to be cheerful: Brazilian company Tectoy announced it is now taking orders for its reissue of the classic console, promising it will be delivered by June next year.—Motherboard Marty Baller to Drop Mixtape on FridayHarlem rapper Marty Baller, perhaps best known for his association with A$AP Ferg, will release his highly anticipated debut mixtape MartyGraW this Friday. New track I'm a Dog features both A$AP Ferg and Migos.—Noisey