It’s a big decision to take a day or two to attend a startup tech conference. No doubt you would like a solid return on your investment of time and money, not a tumble in the mosh pit of a mega tech event. Sound right? Then consider TechCrunch’s Disrupt London for these reasons: Zero in on the right startups for you. Investors and founders benefit from CrunchMatch, the TechCrunch program to arrange investor appointments with founders on-site in private meeting areas and, if desired, suggested matches based on company and investor profiles. Enjoy the excellent company. TechCrunch works hard to make our attendee and speaker mix genuinely diverse and interesting. Hackers, university students, tech-inclined youth from disadvantaged backgrounds, founders, investors, corporate folk and more enjoy our show together, and we are all better for it. Hear amazing speakers, crisply interviewed. TechCrunch’s editors spend months designing the Disrupt program, which is why the agenda features so many successful yet rarely  seen investors and entrepreneurs, such as Dr. Michael Lynch, Citymapper’s Azmat Yusuf, GoEuro’s Naren Shaam, ELBI’s Natalia Vodianova, Accompany’s Amy Chang, and many more. And of course, you don’t usually get journalists sitting there grilling guests for all to see — unless it’s at a Disrupt. Discover startups, really good ones. The TechCrunch team travels the world to recruit great startups for Disrupt. More than 300 companies will exhibit on the Startup Alley floor, and another 12 will compete in our Startup Battlefield. Meet them on the floor, make connections, and maybe even new friends. There are no ‘tyre-kickers‘ at Disrupt! Sharpen your Brexit game. The Disrupt agenda features not one but two Brexit panels, Stopping the Brexit Brain Drain and Brexit Face Off – Two Sides to Britain’s Tech Future, both aimed at helping founders and investors make sense of post-Brexit scenarios and options. Will it have an effect on you? Find out. The two-day Disrupt conference runs December 5 to 6 in the Olympic Village’s Copper Box Arena and features Startup Alley and Startup Battlefield where one startup will take home £30,000. You can buy early bird tickets for Disrupt London here. You want to display your company? Then go for a booth in the Startup Alley. For startups there is also the brand new CrunchMatch program where we match startups to investors. Check it all out here. Extra early bird tickets are now available to purchase for the discounted price of just £950 a piece. You can get your tickets at this price until 5 December. For all you students out there, the deal is about to get even sweeter. We have a limited selection of student tickets to Disrupt London 2016 for just £100 plus VAT, provided you have both a valid university ID and current transcripts. To reserve your £100 student tickets to Disrupt, simply send a copy of your transcripts showing your current enrolment status, as well as a copy of your university identification card to students@beta.techcrunch.com. Once you’re approved, we’ll send you instructions for how to complete your registration. Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@beta.techcrunch.com. We hope to see you at Disrupt London!