Katy Perry has made good on her post-election promise to "not sit still." The pop star, who emerged as one of Hillary Clinton's biggest supporters in recent months, publicly donated $10,000 to Planned Parenthood yesterday and encouraged fans to also support the organization in an Instagram post announcing her contribution. "It's time to turn words into action," Perry began her post, before going on to explain how access to Planned Parenthood had a very personal impact on her during her teenage years. "I am making a public donation to Planned Parenthood for the teenage me who made several visits to first a clinic in Santa Barbara and then Los Angeles, CA to educate myself on my sexual health, a subject I had little to no information on because of my sheltered upbringing," Perry revealed. "I had no idea how things worked down there, and had no idea how to make a plan for them.""Planned Parenthood educated me on my body and my reproductive health, so that I could focus on my dreams and using my voice until I knew the timing was right for me to make a plan to have a family," she continued. "Since then, I have been able to focus wholeheartedly on bringing messages of strength and becoming a voice for others. Without this education, I may have had a different life path.""That is just my experience, but I know Planned Parenthood's broader range of services can sometimes be the only medical support low-income families ever see," Perry wrote, before concluding with a call to action. "Now, more than ever, we all need to protect and create safe places for each other. I hope I can help inspire you to make a gift as well, and become a member and an ally."Perry is not alone in her newly heightened support for the nonprofit health organization. Following Donald Trump's presidential election last week, many women worried about the future of reproductive rights in America are also choosing to channel that uncertainty into action. According to Vice News, Planned Parenthood has seen an outpouring of support from both longtime and first-time donors since the presidential election concluded.In addition to cash donations, volunteer signups have also increased heartily and many who have pledged their support are taking to social media to encourage others to do the same. In order to ensure that Planned Parenthood clinics can continue their work, funding above and beyond that which Congress controls, as well as more volunteers, is essential.If you're looking to help the fight to preserve reproductive rights, here are some ways to take action.