As this shitshow of a presidential election screeches to a halt today, we offer our very own list of DC's most presidential restaurants.  These spots have enough swank to accommodate the Commander-in-Chief, but none of the old-people vibes of Washington's more historically elite eateries. They're the kinds of places that make for ideal photo ops for presidents trying to come off as relatable, but more importantly, the eats are really, really good. It's definitely the fanciest part of our comprehensive MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC, but these places are on-brand for power brokers and Millennial food bloggers alike.  So, if you're planning to visit Washington for Inauguration Day—or any other day, for that matter—check out our Presidential Vibes collection for a definitive list of the upscale places that are so good, they'll make you forget all about your election stress. Sushi Taro: DC has a number of solid sushi places, but Sushi Taro is widely regarded as one of the very best. Run by chef Nobu Yamazaki, this second-story spot in Dupont Circle is pricey, but offers a wide variety of fresh Japanese options. This includes kaiseki, a traditional multi-course affair centered around seasonal, minimally fussed-with ingredients, designed to highlight quality and skillful preparation. However, it's the omakase counter that offers the most remarkable dining option. With only two seatings a night, the chef gets to interact directly with his customers by providing a personalized, no-menu meal built around personal preference and the best ingredients of the day. While there's no set price for this, it won't come cheap (they estimate most people will spend around $160). That being said, it's totally worth it. Convivial: It's easy to lavish praise upon both Convivial and its executive chef/owner Cedric Maupillier. A native of Southern France and now a naturalized American citizen, the four-time James Beard Award nominee marries together French and American flavors with a playfulness that mirrors his own engaging personality. Service is knowledgeable and attentive, while dishes are well-conceived and thoughtfully executed. Fried chicken "coq au vin" somehow manages to be both simultaneously braised and fried to wonderful results, while the boudin blanc is a delicate and memorable tube of pillowy scallop mousse. The turkey leg confit, served with endive, pecans, and ranch dressing tugs at deep turkey-related heart strings, and the cheeseburger is just fucking great. Fancy enough for anniversaries and major celebrations, but also casual enough for a weeknight dinner. Momofuku CCDC: When it was announced that Momofuku was coming to DC, the dining scene was obviously excited to see what David Chang would deliver. Now that it's been in town for a moment, we can say that it's basically like his other outposts: sleekly designed, with food that's thoughtfully composed and deeply delicious. Inhabiting a slice of DC's newest faux-borhood, the corporately owned (and named) "CityCenterDC," it's abbutted by dessert shop Milk Bar, another hot spot in the ever-expanding David Chang empire. The fact that it always seems to be busy is a testament to the skills of chef Patrick Curran and crew. As always, order yourself some buns. Multiple orders. Just, like, as many as you can possibly eat. Komi: Headed by chef Johnny Monis, this modern Greek spot is a jewel in DC's fine dining crown. It's hard to describe the menu simply because there isn't one: the seafood-focused meal costs $150 per person (plus an additional $75 for a beer/wine pairing), and diners are left to wait to see what might hit the table. What can be said with certainty, though, is that the food is smart, beautiful, and delicious, and the service will leave you questioning how you've been treated at virtually every other restaurant you've ever visited. Masseria: Located in a warehouse area where it was once not uncommon to see a john and a hooker going to town on the hood of a car, Masseria is now neighbors with the upscale, trendy Union Market. Don't let that fool you into thinking it's not still a departure from the rest of the neighborhood, though. Step through the corrugated metal door and you'll find yourself transported to the chic, whitewashed environs of coastal Puglia. Chef Nicholas Stefanelli serves nightly prix fixe menus of 3, 4, or 5 courses, as well as a 6 course chef's tasting menu, and a variety of individually priced bar items and cocktails. It's one of the District's most transformative spaces, and a great spot to check out on nights when you feel like you'd rather be on the Adriatic. For nine more fancy spots where you've got to get your fine-dine on in DC, click here for the complete MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC.