Trump has found a new person to blame for sexual assault allegations — a Mexican billionaire  Trump has found a new person to blame for sexual assault allegations — a Mexican billionaire  Donald Trump’s got a solution to his sex harassment scandal: Blame it on Mexico. The besieged Republican presidential candidate is expected to declare Mexican telecommunications billionaire Carlos Slim the source of recent media headaches and allegations of sexual assault, particularly those printed in the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday. Post-scandal, Trump now trails his opponent Hillary Clinton by as much as 11 points in national polls. Trump’s angle: Slim, worth almost $49 billion by Forbes’ estimate, is the largest shareholder of the Times, with 17 percent of the paper’s Class A shares, and he and his foundation have donated as much as $500,000 to the Clinton Foundation. The Journal reported that an unnamed Trump adviser explained that the Slim charge has legs, seeing as the tycoon is a “foreigner.” Donald Trump’s got a solution to his sex harassment scandal: Blame it on Mexico. The besieged Republican presidential candidate is expected to declare Mexican telecommunications billionaire Carlos Slim the source of recent media headaches and allegations of sexual assault, particularly those printed in the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday. Post-scandal, Trump now trails his opponent Hillary Clinton by as much as 11 points in national polls. Trump’s angle: Slim, worth almost $49 billion by Forbes’ estimate, is the largest shareholder of the Times, with 17 percent of the paper’s Class A shares, and he and his foundation have donated as much as $500,000 to the Clinton Foundation. The Journal reported that an unnamed Trump adviser explained that the Slim charge has legs, seeing as the tycoon is a “foreigner.” Since the heart of Trump’s campaign has been anti-immigrant, and anti-Mexico in particular, the story of a scheming businessman south of the border meddling in U.S. elections has all the right ingredients to explain Trump’s recent troubles to supporters. Trump’s counterstrike comes after a week of fallout that started with the leak of a 2005 tape of him bragging about sexual assaulting women to “Access Hollywood” host Billy Bush. After Trump managed to survive the revelation at the second presidential debate Sunday, two women stepped forward to the Times, as did one writer from People magazine, and accused the mogul of assaulting them in the past. Trump has denied all the allegations, demanded the Times remove the story (it rebuked him), and suggested that one of the women was too ugly for him to pursue.