From very messy boiled crawfish to classy crudo to market-price crabs served on newspaper, there are a lot of different ways to enjoy seafood. Luckily, Washington's got 'em all, and we put them in a very comprehensive list as part of the MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC. It's kind of like an interactive pirate map. Follow it, and the bounty of the sea shall be yours... Neglect it, and you will perish. Or at least be hungry. Hot N Juicy Crawfish: Hot N' Juicy Crawfish is the kind of restaurant that caters to people who believe fun and messiness go hand-in-hand. While they're not providing "swamp-to-table" crawdaddies or out foraging for wild turnips to add to artisanal po' boys, or doing any of the other bullshit that tends to draw media attention these days, the math here is simple. Put on some shitty clothes that you don't mind getting sloppy, ask for an Abita, and order some boiled seafood. Whaley's: A recent addition to the rapidly expanding Navy Yard, everything about Whaley's, from the decor to the food, is delicious AF. The kitchen, headed by chef Daniel Perron, puts out a variety of intricately plated oysters, appetizers, and entrees; the drinks menu leans heavily toward wine but also offers cocktails and beer; and the crudo options are choice. Don't go here without getting something seasonally-inspired seafood and sampling the Mid-Atlantic–focused raw bar. Bethesda Crab House: Eating crabs is a DMV right of passage, which is especially true when it comes to the Chesapeake blue crab. In operation since 1961, Bethesda Crab House has served local blue crab at market prices (and crabs sourced from elsewhere when our short-lived season is over), in addition to a variety of other types of seafood, for more than five decades. It's a pretty classic seafood joint, from the newspapers on the table to the outdoor picnic tables that are adjacent to the parking lot, and it's messy fun. Pearl Dive Oyster Palace: Perhaps the crown jewel in the Black Restaurant Group's plethora of DC establishments, Pearl Dive is constantly, overwhelmingly packed. Despite this (and maybe because of it), it's a perpetual favorite on 14th street for those looking for high-quality seafood. While the menu provides a variety of options from both the land and sea, the oyster selection stands out and offers an even split between East Coast and West Coast varieties. Hank's Oyster Bar: Located just off 17th street in Dupont Circle, Hank's has made a name for itself by selling killer meats and libations in a welcoming atmosphere. While most of the menu is straight-up crab shack food, it's also the kind of place where you can find grilled duck breast, baby back ribs, and just-caught swordfish. True to its name, the oysters and other raw bar items are great, and the interesting list of beer, wine, and mixed drinks gives you plenty of options for you while you feast on the bounty of the sea. Hey! For the rest of the list, don't forget to check out the complete MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC for the best places to eat on a budget, drink a cheap beer, grab a coffee, or feel fancy, too.