The 2016 election has been a never-ending source of stress and chaos in the midst of an entirely bizarre year. Today is going to be no better, with the entire mediasphere hitting a fever pitch of anxiety that we've been waiting all year to crescendo. So as we all go out and vote, Motherboard is here for you. Instead of adding more election coverage to the thousands upon thousands of stories to be published shortly, we're dedicating the site to Comfort Content: Stories and memes and blogs that make us all feel cozy inside. Think of it as a bastion of chill standing strong in the face of the hell vortex consuming the rest of the internet today. Since we always strive to bring you, dear reader, a more personal touch, we're also available to swap GIFs or YouTube vids or deep 311 cuts if you need us. All of our Twitter handles (and Comfort Content specialties) are listed below. Please don't hesitate to reach out, and we will try our best to have your back. It's a big day for America, everyone. If you need anything, just let us know. And please, go vote! Tweet at our people depending on what you need most today: Ankita Rao: @anrao is here to give you meditation tips and motivation. All zen, all the time. Jason Koebler: @jason_koebler will be your leaving America travel agent and trip planner. Tell him a thing you like and a place you want to go. He will tell you what to do there, how much it costs, the best hostels, and their citizenship laws. Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai: @lorenzofb is here if you're worried about Russian hackers or cybercriminals. Worried about what Trump could do with the mighty spying powers of the US government? He's here to offer sage advice. Emanuel Maiberg: @emanuelmaiberg has got you covered with Sonic memes. Because, what else do you need? Kaleigh Rogers: @kaleighrogers, our Canadian in NYC, is here to provide happy, quaint news from North of the border. Brian Anderson: @thebanderson will be unplugged for part of the day, but check out his feed for 311 videos. Benjamin Arthur Sullivan: @_bensullivan_ is safe in London providing Kitty Morag photos andlivestream, telling you about British problems, and offering an AMA, British Motherboard edition. Nicholas Deleon: @nicholasadeleon will be a one-man /r/aww. Derek Mead: @derektmead will be the purveyor of ancient YouTube memes. Sarah Emerson: @sarahnemerson has the gold: pics of her dog, Bruna, and cool bird facts. More tweet than Twitter. Meredith Rutland Bauer: @merebauer is here with ASMR soft talking videos, the most soothing sounds in the world.