Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. One-Third Say Debates Will Influence How They VoteAs Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump prepare for the first presidential debate, a new Wall Street Journal / NBC News poll found 34 percent of registered voters think the debates will be "extremely important" or "quite important" in deciding who to vote for. More Republicans than Democrats said the debates would be important to them, 37 percent to 31 percent. —The Wall Street Journal Charlotte Lifts Curfew as Protests ContinueDemonstrators chanted and marched through Charlotte for a sixth consecutive night, as Mayor Jennifer Roberts lifted the citywide curfew Sunday evening. Protests were mostly peaceful and many joined to pray outside the Charrlotte-Mecklenburg police headquarters hours after police released footage of Keith Scott's death. —ABC News Washington Mall Shooting Suspect Faces Murder ChargesThe suspect held in the killing of five people at a Macy's store in a Washington State mall on Friday will be arraigned later today. Arcan Cetin, 20, will appear in district court Monday and faces five counts of first-degree murder after being arrested Saturday night. Police are still working to nail down a motive. —CNN Seven Overdose Deaths in One Day in ClevelandAuthorities in Cleveland are running tests to determine the type of drugs were involved in a spate of fatal overdoses. Officials suspect either heroin or fentanyl is responsible for the seven deaths reported across the Cleveland area on Saturday. Cuyahoga County medical examiner Thomas Gilson called the cluster "deeply concerning." —CBS News Airstrikes Pound Aleppo OvernightDozens of airstrikes hit the city of Aleppo overnight, continuing an air campaign by the Syrian government and its allies. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said dozens of strikes had hit the city. The observatory said it had documented the deaths of 237 people since a ceasefire ended last Monday.—Reuters Boko Haram Leader Mocks Nigerian Military ClaimsA man claiming to be leader of Nigeria's Boko Haram group has appeared in a video rejecting statements by the country's military that he had been seriously wounded. "I will not get killed until my time comes," said the man claiming to be Abubakar Shekau in a 40-minute video posted on YouTube.—The Guardian China Conducts Drills Near Japanese IslandsChina's military said it had flown more than 40 bombers and other fighter planes through a strait between Japanese islands on their way to drills in the western Pacific. The patrols are designed to monitor "foreign military aircraft that enter the anti-aircraft defense zone."—Al Jazeera Switzerland Votes for New Surveillance PowersSwiss voters have given a strong approval for a law granting the intelligence agencies new surveillance powers. Just over 65 percent of voters agreed to accept the proposal, which would allow authorities to tap phones, snoop on email, and deploy hidden cameras and bugs. Opponents feared it will erode civil liberties. —BBC News Arnold Palmer Dies at 87Golf legend Arnold Palmer, a seven-time major champion, has died in Pittsburgh at the age of 87. President Obama said he was "as extraordinary on the links as he was generous to others. Thanks for the memories, Arnold." —USA Today Drake Releases New Short FilmDrake has dropped his latest short film, Please Forgive Me, five days before its scheduled release. The film, based off of his fourth album VIEWS, is directed by Rihanna collaborator Anthony Mandler. —Noisey Obama to Talk Climate Change with DiCaprioThe president will meet with Leonardo DiCaprio next month to discuss climate change, followed by a screening of the actor's documentary Before the Flood. The talk will be part of the "South by South Lawn" events at the White House. —TIME Miami Marlins Pitcher Killed in Boating AccidentMarlins player José Fernández has been killed in a boating accident off the coast of Miami, the US Coast Guard has announced. "Sadly, the brightest lights are often the ones that extinguish the fastest," said Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria. —ESPN First Presidential Votes Cast Before the First Debate Some voters in Minnesota and South Dakota have already cast their votes in the presidential election, part of an expansion in early, in-person voting. Gwynn Rosen, a 66-year-old Minnesotan, said she was "excited to be one of the first women in the US voting for a woman." —VICE News Turkish Company Builds Real TransformerA Turkish company called Letvision has built a real-life transformer: a machine able to change itself from a 2013 BMW to an upright robot. Letvision has not yet set a price for its "Letrons." —Motherboard