(The following statement was released by the rating agency) NEW YORK, November 18 (Fitch) Fitch Ratings has taken the following rating actions on the Dominican Republic: --Long-Term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) upgraded to 'BB-' from 'B+'; assigned Stable Outlook; --Long-Term Local Currency IDR upgraded to 'BB-' from 'B+'; assigned Stable Outlook; --Senior unsecured Foreign and Local Currency bonds upgraded to 'BB-' from 'B+'; --Short-Term Foreign Currency IDR affirmed at 'B'; --Short-Term Local Currency IDR affirmed at 'B'; --Country Ceiling affirmed at 'BB-'. KEY RATING DRIVERS The upgrade of the Dominican Republic to 'BB-' reflects its continued strong growth momentum and rising per capita income, reduced external vulnerabilities and fiscal restraint through the 2016 election cycle. High economic growth rates have raised Dominican Republic's per capita GDP to USD6,734, greater than the 'BB' median. Fitch expects the economy to expand 6.7% in 2016 supported by strong domestic demand and external receipts of tourism and remittances. Growth could slow to 5.5% in 2017 (albeit still higher than the peer median) driven by higher oil prices, higher-cost external financing conditions, and tighter monetary stance. External imbalances have been progressively reducing in recent years, mainly reflecting lower oil prices. Fitch expects the Dominican Republic to sustain low current account deficits (CAD) of 1.7% and 2.1% of GDP in 2016 and 2017, respectively, financed sustainably by net foreign direct investment (FDI). Tourism, remittances, and gold exports support the growth in current external receipts (CXR). Slowly rising oil prices are forecast to gradually widen the CAD, but this effect will be tempered as the new coal plants begin operating in 2018 and substitute coal for diesel imports. The governing PLD party demonstrated fiscal restraint through the 2016 election, in which President Danilo Medina won a second term with a congressional majority, supporting policy continuity. Higher spending during the previous 2012 election year resulted in the widening of the fiscal deficit to 5.3% of GDP from 2.5% in 2011. Fitch expects the government to register a 3% of GDP deficit in 2016, in line with the government's trend of moderate fiscal deficits since 2013. In 2016, the government is offsetting lower-than-budgeted revenues with lower electricity subsidy and other expenditure reductions while extra-budgetary public coal-plant investments will add 0.6% of GDP to capital expenditure. Fitch expects a similar general government deficit at 3.1% of GDP in 2017. The government started in 2H16 to implement tax administration measures to capture +0.6pp GDP in new revenues in 2017. The government could run a small primary surplus in 2018, supported by lower electricity-subsidy and capital spending. The government has postponed the introduction of a tax reform until at least 2017 after the tax-administration measures are implemented. The tax-reform delay and limited progress on the electricity pact reform highlights slower reform momentum. Dominican Republic's general government debt, expected to reach 36.7% of GDP in 2016, is lower than the 'BB' median, but the government's low tax base points to weaker debt tolerance than 'BB' peers. General government debt-to-revenues exceeds 250% while interest-to-revenues is high at 20%. Continued quasi-fiscal electricity-sector losses are likely to prevent the government debt burden from stabilizing. However, the government financing flexibility is supported by its access to international capital markets, multilateral borrowing, and the developing domestic bond market. Inflation remains subdued at 0.9% yoy as well as core inflation at 1.8% yoy. Oil prices are expected to contribute to a pick-up in 2017. An inflation-targeting regime adopted in 2012 is still taking root, and inflation expectations remain anchored to the DOP/USD exchange rate. The central bank raised the monetary policy rate 50bps to 5.5% effective Nov. 1 to address the positive output gap, expected U.S. monetary tightening, and uncertainty arising from U.S. trade policy. The financial system remains broadly stable with a moderate level of financial dollarization. Commercial banks' credit portfolios do not show signs of stress, with low NPLs at 1.8%, and capitalization ratios are adequate at 15.4%. However, real credit growth has been high in recent years, averaging around 13% for 2013-15. Dominican Republic's external balance sheet is weaker than 'BB' peers. Sustained external borrowing is raising the sovereign's net foreign debt toward 18.2% of GDP in 2016 while total external debt service also surpasses the 'BB' median. The country's international reserves, USD5.5bn, have risen although Fitch's international liquidity ratio for Dominican Republic remains below 100%, reflecting its vulnerability to external shocks. Downside risks to growth and external accounts could emerge in case of a shift in trade and immigration related policies under the administration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump. The Dominican Republic has extensive trade (through CAFTA-DR) and financial ties with the U.S. The U.S. represents 36.6% of tourist air arrivals, receives half of Dominican Republic's merchandize exports, and contributes 5.3% of GDP in workers' remittances (2015). SOVEREIGN RATING MODEL (SRM) and QUALITATIVE OVERLAY (QO) Fitch's proprietary SRM assigns the Dominican Republic a score equivalent to a rating of 'BB+' on the Long-term FC IDR scale. Fitch's sovereign rating committee adjusted the output from the SRM to arrive at the final LT FC IDR by applying its QO, relative to rated peers, as follows: --Public finances: -1 notch, to reflect risks to the Dominican Republic's limited budget flexibility, constrained by the narrow tax base, rising interest bill and current expenditure rigidities. The quasi-fiscal losses of the electricity sector continue to put pressure on the government's debt dynamics. Recapitalization of the central bank remains a contingent liability for the sovereign. --External finances: -1 notch, to reflect the Dominican Republic's weaker external liquidity position and vulnerability to external shocks. Fitch's SRM is the agency's proprietary multiple regression rating model that employs 18 variables based on three year centered averages, including one year of forecasts, to produce a score equivalent to a LT FC IDR. Fitch's QO is a forward-looking qualitative framework designed to allow for adjustment to the SRM output to assign the final rating, reflecting factors within our criteria that are not fully quantifiable and/or not fully reflected in the SRM. RATING SENSITIVITIES The Outlook is Stable. The main factors that, individually or collectively, could lead to a positive rating action are: --Strengthened international reserves position; --Strengthening of the government's revenue base, fiscal consolidation and reduction of public debt burden. The main factors that could lead to a negative rating action are: --Increased budget deficits and/or weaker growth leading to a marked increase in the government debt burden; --Deterioration of the international reserves position and current account deficit; --Emergence of fiscal financing constraints. KEY ASSUMPTIONS The ratings and Outlooks are sensitive to a number of assumptions: --Fitch forecasts that U.S. growth of 1.4%, 2%, and 2.2% in 2016, 2017, and 2018 respectively will support the Dominican Republic's economic growth and external finances. --Fitch's fiscal and external forecasts assume that annual gold production is sustained at 1 million ounces and international prices average USD1,100 per ounce in 2016-2018. Further, they assume a gradual rise of the average Brent oil price from USD42 per barrel (bp) in 2016 to USD55 pb in 2018. Contact: Primary Analyst Kelli Bissett-Tom Associate Director +1-212-908-0564 Fitch Ratings, Inc. 33 Whitehall Street New York, NY 10004 Secondary Analyst Richard Francis Director +1-212-908-0858 Committee Chairperson Ed Parker Managing Director +44 20 3530 1176 Media Relations: Elizabeth Fogerty, New York, Tel: +1 (212) 908 0526, Email: elizabeth.fogerty@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com Applicable Criteria Country Ceilings (pub. 16 Aug 2016) here Sovereign Rating Criteria (pub. 18 Jul 2016) here Additional Disclosures Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form here _id=1015020 Solicitation Status here Endorsement Policy here ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001