Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Trump Claims 'Illegal' Votes Prevented Popular Vote VictoryPresident-elect Donald Trump said this weekend that he would have won the popular vote if not for "millions of people who voted illegally." In a series of tweets, the man about to become the most powerful on earth criticized Hillary Clinton for joining recount efforts in three states. Trump advisor Kellyanne Conway called Clinton and the Green Party's Jill Stein, who has led the recount bid, "a pack of sore losers."—VICE News Government Agency Won't Force Removal of Pipeline Protestors The Army Corps of Engineers has announced it will not attempt a "forcible removal" of protestors campaigning against the Dakota Access pipeline in North Dakota. It follows the agency setting a December 5 deadline for clearing an area occupied by protestors. The Corps said it wanted "a peaceful and orderly transition to a safer location."—AP California Mosques Receive Trump-Supporting Hate MailThree mosques in California are reeling after receiving threatening letters suggesting that Donald Trump will "cleanse America." Hussam Ayloush, an executive for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said the group was thinking about referring the letters sent to mosques in Long Beach, Claremont, and San Jose to the FBI.—Reuters One Killed, Nine Injured in New Orleans ShootingA shooting in the French Quarter of New Orleans early Sunday morning left one man dead and nine others wounded. Demontris Toliver, a 25-year-old celebrating his birthday, succumbed, while four of those shot remain in the hospital. Mayor Mitch Landrieu said the suspected shooters are thought to be from out of town.—USA Today Syrian Army Seizes Rebel Districts in AleppoSyria's army claimed to have taken control of the Jabal Badro and Baadeen districts in eastern Aleppo on Sunday. One rebel group reported 15 civilians were killed by a Russian airstrike on the village of Anjara nearby.—Al Jazeera French Conservatives Pick Presidential CandidateFrancois Fillon will be the conservative candidate in France's 2017 presidential election after winning his party's primary runoff with almost 67 percent of the vote. Fillon, who will take on both a Socialist candidate and far-right leader Marine Le Pen, wants to cut 500,000 government jobs, ditch a wealth tax, and end France's 35-hour working week.—BBC News Cubans to Mourn Castro at Revolution Square Cubans are expected to gather at Havana's Revolution Square on Monday to begin a weeklong commemoration of Fidel Castro, who died on Friday at the age of 90. The period of national mourning will end with Castro's ashes getting laid to rest in Santiago de Cuba, the city where the former leader's revolution began, on December 4.—Reuters Philippine Police Neutralize Bomb Outside US EmbassyPolice in the Philippines have detonated a bomb outside the US embassy in the capital of Manilla in a controlled explosion. The improvised explosive device was found in a trash can by a street sweeper. The national police chief said bomb components suggested the militant group Maute could be responsible.—TIME Rage Against the Machine Guitarist Defends Fidel CastroTom Morello has posted a lengthy defense of the late Cuban leader Fidel Castro on Instagram. "Being an unrepentant advocate of the poor and exploited it is no surprise that millions will mourn his passing."—Rolling Stone 'Moana' Top of the Thanksgiving Box OfficeAnimated Disney movie Moana claimed the No.1 spot at the box office during Thanksgiving, taking $81.1 million over the holiday weekend. Allied, starring Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard, earned only $18 million over the same period.—Variety Thanksgiving Shoppers Spent Less Than Last YearAccording to the National Retail Federation (NRF), the average shopper spent $289 over Thanksgiving weekend, down from just south of $300 last year. The NRF said 44 percent of the survey's respondents shopped online.—CNBC News Free Rides in San Francisco After System Hacked San Francisco's Municipal Transit Authority left fare gates open and allowed passengers to travel for free over the weekend after Muni's computer systems were hacked. The Muni hacker's intentions are not yet known, though they reportedly asked for bitcoin.—Motherboard/Forbes Ed Sheeran Sliced by Sword-Wielding Princess Singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran needed stitches on his cheek after Princess Beatrice of York, seventh in line to the British throne, accidentally cut him with a ceremonial sword while trying to "knight" fellow musician James Blunt.—Noisey Porn Star Campaigns for HIV Drug PRePPorn star Brett Rossi, Charlie Sheen's former girlfriend, is urging adult performers to take PReP, a drug reducing the chance of HIV infection by over 90 percent. She says earlier adoption of PReP "would have saved the industry so much of a headache."—Broadly