Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Trump Starts Broadcasting on FacebookDonald Trump's campaign broadcasted a Facebook Live stream on Monday night featuring discussions between campaign advisors and other conservative talking heads. The Trump Tower Live show will air every night on his Facebook page, and is suspected to be the possible basis for a future TV channel, should Trump go into broadcasting after the election.—Bloomberg Pennsylvania GOP Wants Outside Election MonitorsPennsylvania Republicans have filed a federal lawsuit to overturn a state law on poll monitors that currently allows residents to monitor voting locations only in the county where they are registered. Overturning said regulations could allow people from outside Philadelphia to keep tabs on election sites, a tactic some fear will encourage voter intimidation.—APBlack Graduates' Student Debt Almost Double White Graduates' DebtBlack college graduates have higher levels of student debt than previously thought, according to a new Brookings Institution report. Four years after graduating in the 2007-08 academic year, black college graduates had an average of $53,000 in student debt, compared to an average $28,000 for white students who graduated in the same year.—VICE News Guns on Campus Raises Risk of Violence, Says StudyA new study by researchers at John Hopkins University suggests right-to-carry laws on college campuses may actually make violence more likely. The authors pointed out that bystanders with guns basically never stop mass shootings, and said that thanks to factors like binge drinking and drug use, increased gun availability may well have a "deleterious impact."—NBC News Militants Kill 59 at Police College in PakistanDozens of cadets and guards have been killed after militants attacked a police college in Quetta in southwest Pakistan. Three militants with guns and bombs are thought to have entered the college late on Monday; two of the militants died after detonating their bomb vests and one was killed by security forces. A communications intercept suggested the attack might have been organized by militant group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, but the Islamic State has claimed responsibility.—Reuters Pope Francis Persuades Venezuelan Government to Talk to Opposition The Venezuelan government may meet the opposition for crisis talks after an intervention from Pope Francis, according to the Vatican. Protests have been raging in recent months—and especially in the past few days after a campaign to remove President Nicolás Madurowas blocked by authorities.—BBC News Kenyan Hotel Attack Leaves 12 DeadA dozen people were killed in an attack on non-Muslims not far from the border with Somalia, Kenyan police say. Fighters from the notorious militant group al Shabab are thought to be behind the deadly assault.—Al Jazeera Four Killed on Australian Theme Park RideA Dreamworld theme park on Australia's Gold Coast saw a deadly malfunction Tuesday, according to police. The accident apparently happened on the park's Thunder River Rapids ride, killing four.—The Guardian Suge Knight Sues Dr. Dre for Alleged Murder PlotSuge Knight has filed a lawsuit against Dr. Dre alleging that Dre hired a hit man to kill him to avoid paying his debts. The former Death Row Records executive's lawyer says Dre (a.k.a Andre Young) contracted the man who shot him seven times at a Hollywood club in 2014. Knight previously sued Chris Brown over the same incident.—Billboard/AP Apple: 90 Percent of Amazon Chargers Are FakeApple is suing a company it says is hawking counterfeit chargers on Amazon, and some of those fakes allegedly have the potential to overheat and catch fire.—The Verge Chinese Company Issues Webcam RecallA Chinese firm has issued a recall for millions of webcams and recorders in the US following last week's massive cyberattack. Hangzhou Xiongmai Technology says customers failing to change their default passwords has made it too easy for hackers to compromise the devices.—TIME/AP California to Vote on Wiping Weed ArrestsLawyers and activists are pumped that California's ballot measure to legalize recreational marijuana, Proposition 64, would allow judges to consider re-sentencing those convicted of pot crimes, as well as for the destruction of marijuana conviction records. The measure is expected to pass.—Motherboard Artist Messed with the Minds of 'Melrose Place' ViewersWatch conceptual artist Mel Chin explain how he snuck political messages—such as sex education and human rights symbols—into 1990s TV drama Melrose Place.—VICE News Photo via Flickr user Rev Stan