Aside from in praise of Bad Brains and Minor Threat, the word "cool" isn't usually associated with our nation's capital. And now, with President Elect Donald J. Trump waiting in the wings, the cool factor of DC may seem tarnished beyond repair. But if you know where to look, there are plenty of fun, unpretentious places to eat and drink, which we suspect will soon be packed with a bunch of people decompressing from the all-out dumpster fire that was this election year. Lucky for you, we've mapped those places out for you in our MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC, which we've designed to 'make Washington cool again.' From cheap-and-cheerful dive bars to seafood haunts to mezcalerias, there's no shortage of low-key places to disappear in while America takes a sobering look at itself in the mirror. These haunts are far away from the political interns, staffers, and bureaucrats whose faces have been bombarding our screens for... well... as long as we can remember now. We all deserve a stiff drink—and a hearty meal to go along with it. Panda Gourmet: You could easily be forgiven for driving past Panda Gourmet and thinking "there's no way in hell I'd ever eat there." Located at a Day's Inn used by the city as emergency overflow housing for homeless families, it's about a mile from the Maryland border and is immediately next to an active stone-and-mortar train trestle. Put your faith in the Panda, though, and don't be dissuaded from visiting. Inside you'll find a clean restaurant with brusque service serving some of the best Sichuan and Xian cuisine available in the Mid-Atlantic. Mapo tofu will rock your palate with vibrant chili oil and tingling powdered Sichuan peppercorns, while shaanxi dishes like cumin lamb and cold vinegared noodles with cubes of pita bread treat you to flavors and textures you didn't think were available in DC. Also, don't be tricked by their Americanized take out menu which appears prominently at the entrance: it's for rubes and the slow-witted. Espita Mezcaleria: Espita Mezcaleria is a recent addition to the DC dining scene and yet another bright spot in Shaw. Headed by executive chef Alexis Samayoa, the menu features Mexican food with an emphasis on the deep, complex flavors of Oaxaca. Seven moles are available in addition to a number of tacos, ceviches, and other dishes, and as the name suggests, the liquor-of-choice at this spot is mezcal, tequila's smokier older brother. Josh Phillips, Espita's GM and Mezcalier, serves up the booze in both individual servings and flights, and the selection is remarkable. DC has a disappointing lack of quality Mexican restaurants, and Espita goes a long way toward filling in that hole. Bantam King: Living in the bones of a failed Burger King (and with a logo and interior designed to elicit memories of the former tenant), Bantam King is the latest project from the Daikaya team, and it serves up chicken ramen in one of the funkiest settings you can find in DC. While you're presented with a variety of broth options to choose from, the clear chintan (which is only available in limited quantities) is a remarkable standout, and you'd be nuts not to add on an additional marinated egg (nitamago). Bantam King has also made a name for itself with its southern American-style fried chicken that, complete with fixings, will run you $26 bucks. Unfortunately, this is only available at dinner time. Sorry lunch hounds—Chef Katsuya Fukushima has said he doesn't plan to change this. Red Derby: The Red Derby shows that you don't have to be unfriendly and filthy to still qualify as a neighborhood dive. With its colorful interior, cheap drinks, casual atmosphere, and good-natured staff, it's the kind of place you'd always hope to find just down the block from your house. It's cash only, so make sure to stop by an ATM on your way over, and try to check out the rooftop bar if weather permits. Izakaya Seki: If you've had a chance to visit Japan, or even if you've just been in an izakaya somewhere else in the world, you know that experience tends to stay nestled in your mind and brings back powerful (though foggy) memories. Izakaya Seki does that to you. Describing itself as "a Japanese drinking establishment," the red lantern hanging outside beckons you into a space where food and drink, simply and beautifully presented, takes center stage. Run by chef Hiroshi Seki, the sleek space makes it easy to find yourself ordering dish after dish and chasing it with endless amounts of sake. It's fun, relaxing, and a nice departure from the surrounding bustle of the neighborhood. For our full list of recommendations of DC's coolest restaurants and bars, continue reading on the MUNCHIES Guide to Washington, DC.