Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Tillerson Had Key Job at Russian-affiliated Oil Company in Bahamas, Documents RevealLeaked documents show Rex Tillerson, Donald Trump's choice to become the next secretary of state, was director of a US-Russian oil company registered in the Bahamas. Tillerson, CEO of ExxonMobil, had the director role at Exxon Neftegas between 1998 and 2006 when other senior figures were based in Texas, Moscow and Sakhalin, Russia.—The Guardian Anti-Trump Protestors Rally Ahead of Electoral College ConfirmationThe Electoral College was expected to formally settle on Donald Trump as the next president of the United States Monday, despite a post-election campaign urging members to think again. Around 2,000 people marched in downtown Los Angeles on Sunday carrying banners that read "Stop Trump" and "Make America Think Again."—Reuters Gay Rights Groups Ask Court to Keep Blocking Mississippi LawActivists are urging a federal appeals court to continue blocking a Mississippi law that would allow employees to deny services to gay couples and transgender people based on religious objections. The law, championed by Republican Governor Phil Bryant, was already halted by US District Judge Carlton Reeves earlier this year.—AP McCain Says US 'Paralyzed' in Response to Russian HackingSenator John McCain criticized President Obama's response to Russian election interference and said US leadership has been "totally paralyzed" following the cyber attacks. The Arizona lawmaker also renewed his call for a select committee to conduct an investigation into Russia's hacking of the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton's campaign.—VICE News Evacuation of Eastern Aleppo ResumesThe evacuation of civilians and rebel fighters from eastern Aleppo has resumed after a weekend delay. More than 5,000 people were evacuated on buses Monday, following 350 others leaving for safety late Sunday night. —AFP Jordanian Forces Bring Castle Siege to an EndSecurity forces have ended a siege of Karak's hilltop castle in Jordan, killing four gunmen. The "terrorist outlaws," as the government described them, had taken refuge in the castle Sunday after shooting dead nine people in the city, including a Canadian tourist and at least five police officers. At least 29 people were injured.—Reuters Amnesty Warns of 'Crimes Against Humanity' in MyanmarA new report by human rights group Amnesty International accuses the Myanmar military of callous attacks on the country's Rohingya Muslim minority that may amount to "crimes against humanity." Amnesty accused the military of killing civilians, raping women and torching villages in Rohingya areas.—BBC News Trial of Presidential Confidante Begins in South KoreaChoi Soon-sil, a long-time friend of President Park Geun-hye, has denied corruption charges as her trial gets underway in South Korea. Soon-sil's lawyers say she did not lean on companies to give millions of dollars to her own charitable foundations, though Soon-sil added, ""I'm sorry for causing trouble."—Al Jazeera 'Rogue One' Takes $290 Million at Global Box Office Rogue One: A Star Wars Story enjoyed a huge opening weekend around the world, taking in $155 million in the US alone. Somber drama Collateral Beauty sold only $7 million, a career worst for star Will Smith.—The Hollywood Reporter Zsa Zsa Gabor Dies At 99Zsa Zsa Gabor, the actress and legendary Hollywood socialite, has died of heart failure. Gabor and her family emigrated to the US from Hungary just before the Nazi invasion in 1936, and she married nine times.—BuzzFeed News Ex-Clinton Staffer Keeping Tabs on Trump Conflicts of InterestMatt Ortega, who was the digital director for communications for the Hillary Clinton campaign, is touting a website documenting Donald Trump's possible conflicts of interest. Calling it Corrupt.af, Ortega snagged the domain suffix from Afghanistan.—NBC News New Nine Inch Nails Music to Drop Before ChristmasTrent Reznor has announced a new Nine Inch Nails album EP, Not the Actual Events, will be released on December 23. Reznor also revealed deluxe vinyl reissues of the NIN's 90s albums will be issued in 2017.—Noisey Six New Species Identified on Indian Ocean FloorA bunch of new species discovered on the floor of the Indian Ocean have been formally named in a new paper published by Nature. The worms, snails, crab and mollusk were culled from hydrothermal vents.—Motherboard California Attempts Crackdown on Contraband PhonesThe California state prison system is launching a new program to stop the flow of contraband cell phones. It will install more than 1,000 devices including surveillance cameras, X-ray machines, and decryption devices.—VICE News / AP