Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Clinton Opens Up Double-Digit LeadA new national survey from ABC News shows Hillary Clinton up on Donald Trump 50 percent to 38 percent among likely voters. The poll found 69 percent of likely voters disapprove of how Trump has handled questions about his treatment of women. Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager, is now saying the obvious: "We are behind."—ABC News/CNN California Bus Crash Leaves 13 DeadA nasty collision between a bus operated by USA Holiday Bus and a tractor trailer in Palm Springs killed 13 people and injured more than 30 others Sunday, according to police. Jim Abele, chief of the California Highway Patrol Border Division, said early reports indicate speed was a factor in the high death toll.—NBC News Governor Donated Funds to Deputy FBI Director's WifeA political group affiliated with Virginia governor Terry McAuliffe gave almost $500,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an FBI official who later worked on the investigation into Clinton's email use. McAuliffe's political-action committee lavished $467,500 on the campaign of Jill McCabe, wife of Andrew McCabe, who is now the FBI's deputy director.—The Wall Street Journal Ordinary Devices Were Used in Friday's Massive Cyber AttacksDetails have emerged about Friday's "unprecedented" cyber attacks that blocked access to sites like Twitter, HBO, and Netflix. Cyber attackers created a "botnet" using a web of ordinary devices like baby monitors and webcams, before unleashing a massive DDoS attack on company called Dyn, whose servers reroute traffic.—VICE News Iraqi Kurds Claim Capture of Key Town with Turkish HelpKurdish fighters claim to have seized the Iraqi town of Bashiqa, a town roughly eight miles northeast of Mosul, from ISIS on Sunday. Turkish artillery fire supported the Peshmerga effort, according to that country's prime minister, Binali Yildirim.—Reuters France Begins to Clear Migrant Camp in CalaisHundreds of cops and other officials in Calais, France, are moving to clear what is often called the local "jungle" migrant camp. Despite some clashes over the weekend, many of the 7,000 migrants have been lining up peacefully. The first of dozens of vehicles that will carry them to refugee centers across the country have begun their trips.—BBC News Heavy Clashes in Aleppo After Pause in FightingFighting took a brutal turn once again in Aleppo, Syria, after a "humanitarian" pause announced by Russia lapsed. Jets of unknown origin bombarded rebel-held areas of the city on Sunday, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Rebels reportedly launched counter-attacks, including a bombardment of the regime-held district of al Hamadaniyah.—Al Jazeera Malta Plane Crash Kills All Five PassengersAn investigation is underway after a small passenger aircraft crashed not long after departing Malta's international airport, killing all five people onboard. The plane was initially said to perhaps have been chartered by the European Union's border control agency, Frontex, ostensibly to keep tabs on migrant trafficking, but now appears to have been a French customs aircraft.—The Guardian Veteran Activist Tom Hayden Dies at 76Activist and politician Tom Hayden, a leading figure in the anti–Vietnam War movement who served as president of Students for a Democratic Society and served 18 years in California's state legislature, has died at age 76. "He was the radical inside the system," said advisor Duane Peterson.—Los Angeles Times Drake Previews Four New SongsThe artist unveiled four new songs as part of his Apple Music OVO Sound Radio show Sunday. Three tracks—"Two Birds One Stone," "Fake Love," and "Sneakin"—will appear on his new project More Life, which should drop late this year.—Rolling Stone Bill Murray Receives Mark Twain Prize The actor and comedian received the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor on Sunday night in Washington, DC. "It's hard to listen to all those people be nice to you," he said. "You just get so suspicious."—The Washington Post Kayne Will Ditch Grammys if Frank Ocean Isn't NominatedKanye West says he won't attend the next Grammy Awards if Frank Ocean's Blonde isn't nominated. "If his album's not nominated in no categories, I'm not showing up to the Grammys...We've got to come together to fight the bullshit."—Noisey AT&T Buyout of Time Warner Faces ScrutinyPublic interest groups are warning that telecom giant AT&T's plan to buy Time Warner in a massive $85 billion deal could lead to higher prices for consumers. The buyout is expected to face intense regulatory scrutiny in Washington.—Motherboard Voice Actors' Union Strikes Against Video Game IndustrySAG-AFTRA, the union representing voice actors and motion-capture artists, is striking against the video game industry. The group is demanding residual pay for high-selling games and reduced work days to prevent vocal stress.—VICE News