Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Trump Promises to Deport Millions of ImmigrantsPresident-elect Donald Trump this weekend pledged to deport 2 to 3 million undocumented immigrants, suggesting he's after those with criminal records. "We're getting them out of our country. They're here illegally," he told 60 Minutes. Trump also said he would stand by his promise to build a border wall, but conceded some parts of the wall might be "fencing."—VICE News Bernie Sanders Backs Anti-Trump ProtestsVermont senator Bernie Sanders says he supports the nationwide wave of demonstrations against Donald Trump becoming president. "People are angry. People are upset. And they want to express their point of view that they are very frightened." Sanders also said the nation needed to "rethink" the Electoral College.—USA Today Michigan Cop Suspended for Confederate Flag TruckA police officer in Traverse City, Michigan, has been suspended (with pay) for driving around anti-Trump protesters in a pickup truck displaying the Confederate flag. Police chief Jeff O'Brien announced the suspension of Michael Peters and said, "I do not condone his actions."—AP Toyota Settles US Lawsuit for $3.4 BillionJapanese car giant Toyota has agreed to pay billions to settle a class-action lawsuit brought by pickup truck and SUV owners alleging their vehicles lacked rust protection. The deal puts the cost of replacing the frame on each vehicle that sees major corrosion at $15,000 each.—The Wall Street Journal Two Dead as New Zealand Hit by Series of EarthquakesEarthquakes slammed the South Island of New Zealand early Monday, killing at least two people and triggering a series of damaging aftershocks. Land slips and cracks in roads made it hard to reach the area near the epicenter 55 miles northeast of Christchurch, where the initial quake hit just after midnight.—CNN Pro-Russia Outsider Wins Bulgarian ElectionPro-Russia candidate Rumen Radev has won the Bulgarian presidential election, winning 59.4 percent of the vote with almost all polling stations counted. The former air force commander, a political outsider, played on fears over immigration and the perceived corruption of elites bound to the EU.—Al Jazeera Australia Confident US Will Honor Migrant Resettlement Australian prime minister Malcolm Turnbull said the US will resettle a "substantial" number of 1,200 migrants held on Papua New Guinea and the Pacific island of Nauru after Donald Trump becomes president. Turnbull said he was confident the new administration would honor a deal made in September.—Reuters Assange Meets Swedish Prosecutor Over Rape ClaimsSweden's chief prosecutor has arrived at the Ecuadorian embassy in London to interview WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange about allegations of rape dating back to 2010. An Ecuadorean prosecutor will put Ingrid Isgren's questions to Assange while the Swedish prosecutor is allowed to listen and ask for clarifications.—The Guardian Chelsea Manning Urges Obama to Commute SentenceChelsea Manning has formally petitioned President Obama to commute her sentence before he leaves office in January. Ms. Manning has asked Obama to cut her 35-year sentence to the time she has already served, just over six years.—The New York Times Ruth Bader Ginsburg Makes Opera Debut Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg received a standing ovation for her formal opera debut at the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC, this weekend. Ginsburg had a small speaking part in The Daughter of the Regiment.—The Washington Post Chinese Copper Giant Moves into Movie BusinessChinese copper company Anhui Xinke New Materials has acquired an 80 percent stake in Midnight Investments, the holding company behind the studio responsible for The Hurt Locker and Dallas Buyers Club. The estimated $350 billion deal is the latest move by major Chinese firms to enter the global market for high-level consumer goods. —Reuters Leon Russell Dies at Age 74 Musician and songwriter Leon Russell, known for work with Bob Dylan, Elton John, and the Rolling Stones, has died in his sleep in Nashville at the age of 74. Russell was inducted in the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame in 2011.—Noisey Government Reached Out to Tribal Leaders Over Pipeline Protests Native American leaders from across the US met federal representatives in Phoenix earlier this fall to discuss major infrastructure projects and ensure "meaningful tribal input." Meanwhile, the Dakota Access Pipeline in North Dakota is reportedly set to be approved any day now.—VICE First 'Ghost in the Shell' Trailer is HereThe first trailer for the live-action adaptation of the 1989 Manga classic Ghost in the Shell starring Scarlett Johansson has been released. It begins with an introduction from Johansson, who says she is "thrilled" to be playing the lead.—Motherboard