Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Trump Says Russian Election Interference UnlikelyIn an interview with Larry King for the Russia Today network, Donald Trump rejected the idea Russia was tampering with the US presidential election. "I think it's probably unlikely," said Trump. "Maybe the Democrats are putting that out—who knows." Trump's running mate Mike Pence said it was "inarguable" Vladimir Putin had been a stronger leader than President Obama.—CNN US Officials Expand Election Hack InvestigationUS security officials are expanding their investigation into the hacking of state election systems, suspecting more states than just Arizona and Illinois have been affected. The Department of Homeland Security will send an alert to election officials across the country and offer specific measures to prevent cyberattacks.—CBS News 84 Pregnant Women Infected with Zika VirusDoctors in Florida said that 84 pregnant women in the state have now been infected with the Zika virus. Doctors expect to see a spike in the number of babies born to Zika-infected mothers within the next few months. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has urged doctors in Florida to test all pregnant women for the virus. - ABC News Alaska Approves Marijuana for Commercial SaleAlaska's first marijuana manufacturers and retails stores were approved by the state. Frozen Budz, a fledging edibles company, became the first retail shop approved by the state's Marijuana Control Board. To cheers from the audience, owner Destiny Neade said: "All right, now I just need some herb."—Alaska Dispatch News North Korea Carries Out Fifth Nuclear Test North Korea says it has carried out its fifth nuclear test, believed to be the country's biggest test yet. South Korea estimates the explosive yield of the blast to be about ten kilotons. President Park Geun-hye said it showed the "maniacal recklessness" of Kim Jong-un. The US warned of serious consequences.—VICE News Senior Militant Commander Killed in Syria A senior commander of the Syrian militant group Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly known as the Nusra Front, has been killed, according to the rebel group. The group announced on Twitter that Abu Omar Saraqeb died after an air strike in Aleppo province. There is no confirmation which country carried out the strike.—Al Jazeera Mont Blanc Cable Car Passengers Rescued Rescuers have begun bringing 33 people trapped overnight in cable cars over Mont Blanc to safety on Friday morning. More than 110 people were initially trapped on the three mile ride between the two mountain peaks when cables snared at around 5:30 PM local time. Four helicopters rescued 65 people before night fell.—Reuters French Policeman Stabbed During Arrest of SuspectsA French policeman was stabbed during an operation to arrest three women in connection with gas canisters left in a car near Paris's Notre Dame cathedral last Sunday. Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said the women arrested on Thursday, aged 19, 23, and 39, were "in all likelihood preparing an imminent, violent act."—The Guardian Facebook Co-Founder Gives $20 Million to DemocratsDustin Moskovitz, the billionaire co-founder of Facebook, will donate $20 million to a "number of organizations" to help Hillary Clinton and other Democrat candidates win in November. He accused Donald Trump of having a "zero-sum" vision.—CNN Denver Linebacker Joins Kaepernick ProtestBroncos linebacker Brandon Marshall kneeled during the national anthem at Denver's opening game against the Carolina Panthers Thursday night. Marshall has been retweeting several stories about Colin Kaepernick's protest.—AP Teenagers Drinking and Smoking Less than EverSmoking and drinking among teenagers have fallen to new lows, according to the latest federal data. Just 9.6 percent of adolescents reported using alcohol in 2015, down from 17.6 percent in 2002.—The New York Times Airbnb Outlines New Polices on Racism Airbnb is making a series of changes to combat racial discrimination for users. They include reducing the prominence of guest photos, promoting listings that don't require host approval, and hiring a full-time team to promote diversity.—VICE FBI Arrests Two Alleged Members of CIA Hack GroupTwo young men from North Carolina have been charged with their alleged connection to the hacking group "Crackas With Attitude." The CWA group hacked the personal emails of CIA director John Brennan last year.—Motherboard Vets Group Wants Congress to Treat Weed Like MedicineThe American Legion, the conservative US military veterans group with more than 2 million members, has formally called on Congress to "recognize cannabis as a drug with potential medical value."—VICE News Get the VICE App on iOS and Android