On Wednesday, Apple CEO Tim Cook sent an email to all of the company's U.S. employees. The message, acquired by BuzzFeed News, is a reminder that we must all move forward together, no matter how we voted and what our differences may be. Cook began, “In a political contest where the candidates were so different and each received a similar number of popular votes, it’s inevitable that the aftermath leaves many of you with strong feelings.”Acknowledging that many people feel uncertain about the future, Cook quoted Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “If you can’t fly, then run. If you can’t run, then walk. If you can’t walk, then crawl, but whatever you do, you have to keep moving forward.” BuzzFeed notes that Cook, who had sparred publicly with Trump over the campaign, did not mention the president-elect by name. However, at a time when many groups are fearful for what a Trump presidency could mean for them, Cook did reaffirm Apple’s commitment to diversity, “regardless of what they look like, where they come from, how they worship, or who they love.”If this doesn't make you want to hug your iPhone, we don't know what will. Read the full email, below: Team,I’ve heard from many of you today about the presidential election. In a political contest where the candidates were so different and each received a similar number of popular votes, it’s inevitable that the aftermath leaves many of you with strong feelings.We have a very diverse team of employees, including supporters of each of the candidates. Regardless of which candidate each of us supported as individuals, the only way to move forward is to move forward together. I recall something Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said 50 years ago: “If you can’t fly, then run. If you can’t run, then walk. If you can’t walk, then crawl, but whatever you do, you have to keep moving forward.” This advice is timeless, and a reminder that we only do great work and improve the world by moving forward.While there is discussion today about uncertainties ahead, you can be confident that Apple’s North Star hasn’t changed. Our products connect people everywhere, and they provide the tools for our customers to do great things to improve their lives and the world at large. Our company is open to all, and we celebrate the diversity of our team here in the United States and around the world — regardless of what they look like, where they come from, how they worship, or who they love.I’ve always looked at Apple as one big family, and I encourage you to reach out to your coworkers if they are feeling anxious.Let’s move forward — together!Best,Tim