Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Obama Warns Against 'Crude' Nationalism Speaking in Greece on what may be his last formal trip overseas, President Obama warned against a "crude sort of nationalism" in many parts of the world. "We are going to have to guard against... tribalism that is built around an us and a them," he said. Obama also said dividing people by race, religion, or ethnicity was "dangerous."—The Washington Post  Trump Team Considering Muslim Registry, Advisor SaysKansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach claims he has discussed a plan to create a registry for immigrants from Muslim countries with Donald Trump's policy advisors. Kobach, an immigration hawk, compared the potential registry to measures put in place after 9/11.—Reuters  McConnell Expects Reelection as Senate Majority LeaderMitch McConnell is expected to be made the Senate majority leader again Wednesday after the unanimous reelection of Paul Ryan as Speaker of the House by fellow Republicans a day earlier.—USA Today  Assad Hopes Trump Can Be 'Ally'Syrian president Bashar al Assad thinks President-elect Donald Trump may be "a natural ally" thanks to his hawkish stance on Islamic terrorism. Speaking about Trump's campaign promise to focus on fighting ISIS rather than the Syrian regime, Assad said: "I would say this is promising, but can he deliver?"—AFP  Warships to Help New Zealand with Quake Evacuation Ships with US, Canadian, and Australian naval forces are heading to New Zealand to help with the evacuation of Kaikoura, the town completely cut off by recent landslides. Some 600 people were evacuated Wednesday.—BBC News  Suicide Bomber on Motorbike Kills Four in Kabul A suicide bomber has killed at least four people in the Afghanistan capital of Kabul using a motorbike. Several more were wounded when the attacker detonated the device next to a vehicle carrying security officials, and ISIS has since claimed responsibility for the attack.—Reuters  Jakarta Governor Made Suspect in Blasphemy ProbeAccused of insulting the Qur'an, the Christian governor of Jakarta has been named by Indonesian police as a suspect in a blasphemy investigation. After complaints about how Basuki Tjahaja Purnama used Qur'anic verse, police have banned him from leaving the country and recommended his case be tried in court.—Al Jazeera  Prince Label Launches Lawsuit Against Roc NationPrince's estate is reportedly suing Jay-Z's label Roc Nation for copyright infringement, alleging the streaming service Tidal has been featuring much of the late musician's back catalog without authorization.—Rolling Stone  Nintendo Shares Jump After Announcing Mario Game Release DateThe Japanese video game giant saw its shares spike by several percentage points after announcing an imminent release date for the Super Mario Run iPhone game. The Nintendo game will will be available on December 15 for $9.99.—CNBC News  'Post-Truth' Chosen as Word of the YearOxford Dictionaries has selected "post-truth" as its international word of the year for 2016. Casper Grathwohl, president of Oxford Dictionaries, said increased use of the term reflected "a growing distrust of facts offered up by the establishment."—TIME  Tinder Expands Gender Identity Options Tinder users will now have dozens of choices for gender identity, after the company announced it is doing away with binary gender options. Users will also get the option to create their own custom identity.—VICE News  A$AP Ferg Produces Marty Baller Short Film Harlem rapper Marty Baller has followed up the release of his debut mixtape MartyGraW with a short film of the same name, premiered on Noisey. Produced by A$AP Ferg, it explains Baller's backstory.—Noisey  'Stranger Things' Kid Stars in What May Be First Drone Movie A 13-minute movie called The Circle, starring Ryan Phillippe and Noah Schnapp—Will Byers from Stranger Things—was shot entirely with Chinese drone-maker DJI's new Inspire 2 camera. It is thought to be the first movie exclusively shot by drone.—Motherboard