Legal marijuana is well-established in the Pacific Northwest. Now, on the opposite coast, Mainers will have the chance to make their state legal pot's first foothold in New England. If approved, Maine's Question 1 would legalize marijuana use for adults over the age of 21. Individuals would be allowed to purchase, transport and possess up to 2.5 ounces of weed at a time. It also allows for the possession of six mature plants, 12 immature plants and an unlimited number of seedlings. If the law passes, legalization in Maine goes into effect 30 days after the election results are declared official. Marijuana sales in Maine would be taxed 10 percent. The taxes, along with the fees collected from issuing licenses, would go almost entirely into the state's general fund. This money would fund new police training programs focused on regulating pot in the state, and leftover funds will go to existing government programs. Two percent of the funds would go to the Local Government Fund. Video: Bangor Daily News The Maine Office of Fiscal and Program Review estimates that marijuana sales would generate $2.8 million in sales tax for the state during the first year, then $10.7 million in following years. The Maine Department of Agriculture, Conservation and Forestry would be responsible for regulating the state's marijuana industry. The department would have nine months to adopt rules for licensing marijuana businesses. Local cities and towns would need to approve all marijuana businesses before a license can be issued. It would still be illegal to use marijuana in "nonpublic" places, but that term is undefined in the bill and the maximum fine for a violation is $100. Maine citizens appear to be leaning in favor of legalization. A poll released by the Portland Press Herald on Oct. 31 shows 50 percent of likely voters supporting Question 1, while 41 percent are against the measure. But Maine Governor Paul LePage, the state's most visible politician, is opposed to legalization. In a video originally posted to Facebook but later removed, LePage ties marijuana to Maine's opioid crisis. "Heroin is already killing seven Mainers a week. We do not need to legalize another drug that could lead to more deaths," LePage said in the video. Get six of our favorite Motherboard stories every day by signing up for our newsletter.