Many musicians including Questlove and John Legend have begun to speak out in defense of a statement the cast of the Broadway musical Hamilton read to Vice President-elect Mike Pence after a performance on Friday night. Upon his arrival, Pence was booed by members of the audience. At the end of the performance, the cast–led by cast member Brandon Victor Dixon–read a statement of concern to Pence about the upcoming Trump administration and presidency. "There's nothing to boo. We're all here sharing a story of love," Dixon said. "We, sir, are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us: our planet, our children, our parents or defend us and uphold our inalienable rights, sir." The entire statement can be viewed below. This is the statement made by — Hamilton (@HamiltonMusical)November 19, 2016 Since their statement, President-elect Donald Trump has tweeted a series of angry messages to the cast demanding an apology from them for exercising their First Amendment rights. Today, producer and musician RJD2 added his voice to the matter in a series of tweets that questioned the implications of an infringement on an American's First Amendment rights. "I have to wonder; if we reach the threshold where free speech actually starts being threatened, will we know what that looks like?" the musician tweeted. "Another way of asking the question: could there be a level of retribution that is "indirect enough" for us to not recognize it as such?" Read his entire series of tweets below. Saw that speech from Hamilton cast member to Pence on IG; was about the most respectfully measured thing I heard all week. 100% classiness. I have to wonder; if we reach the threshold where free speech actually starts being threatened, will we know what that looks like? Another way of asking the question: could there be a level of retribution that is 'indirect enough' for us to not recognize it as such? I guess I'm just saying that some of these soon-to-be office holders might wanna either grow a pair, or have a pair surgically implanted Last week, we spoke with Martyn about the 2016 presidential election results.