Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Trump Picks Fossil Fuel Lover to Lead EPAPresident-elect Donald Trump has settled on Oklahoma attorney general Scott Pruitt to head up the Environmental Protection Agency to the dismay of environmentalists everywhere. Pruitt fought vigorously against climate change regulations and has written about manmade global warming being a matter of debate, describing the issue as "far from settled."—VICEFederal Judge Suspends Michigan RecountUS District Judge Mark Goldsmith has suspended an election recount in Michigan. He cited lack of evidence of fraud and Green Party candidate Jill Stein's failure to show she was a legitimately "aggrieved" candidate.—The Detroit NewsTeens Charged with Arson in Tennessee Wildfires The authorities have taken two juveniles into custody and charged them with aggravated arson relating to the Tennessee wildfires. Police said information received from a tip line was "critical" filing charges against the teenagers. The wildfires have killed 14 people and injured at least 130 others.—ABC News Walmart Announces $1.3 Billion Investment in MexicoUS retail giant Walmart has announced plans to invest $1.3 billion in logistics operations in Mexico, creating some 10,000 new jobs. Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto said the investment came at a time of "great uncertainty and big risk-aversion," a thinly veiled reference to Donald Trump, who recently threatened "consequences" for US companies sending jobs overseas.—AFP Assad Says Aleppo Victory Would Be 'Huge'Syrian president Bashar al Assad says taking full control of Aleppo would be "a huge step" toward winning the country's civil war. Assad's forces followed up on a rebel withdrawal from the Old City by also seizing the Bab al Nayrab, Al Maadi, and Salhin areas in eastern Aleppo. The Syrian Civil Defense said 61 people were killed in airstrikes and shelling on Wednesday.—Al JazeeraInvestigators Probe Cause of Deadly Plane Crash in Pakistan Investigators are trying to wrap their heads around the plane crash in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan that left 47 people dead Wednesday. Muhammad Azam Saigol, chairman of Pakistan International Airlines, said one of the planes turboprop engines may have failed just before the crash.—ReutersSouth Korean Parliament to Hold Impeachment VoteSouth Korean lawmakers are expected to vote Friday on a bill to impeach President Park Geun-hye. Opposition forces introducing the motion Thursday are confident about getting the two-thirds majority required for it to pass, but the country's constitutional court could take up to 180 days to decide whether to certify the bill.—APRescue Efforts Continue in Indonesia After EarthquakeEmergency responders are still searching for survivors in Aceh Province in Indonesia following the devastating earthquake that killed 102 people. The Indonesian Red Cross and other aid agencies are trying to get relief supplies to the area, while soldiers and police are setting up shelters for those left homeless.—BBC News Leonardo DiCaprio Gives Climate Change Presentation at Trump TowerLeonardo DiCaprio and the head of his foundation gave a presentation on climate change and clean energy jobs to Donald Trump and his daughter Ivanka at Trump Tower on Wednesday. DiCaprio had already given Ivanka a copy of his related documentary Before the Flood, and the president-elect reportedly promised to watch himself.—APFormer NASA Astronaut John Glenn Hospitalized John Glenn, the very first American to go into orbit, has been in hospital for over a week. The 95-year-old is receiving treatment at the James Cancer Hospital in Ohio, but there are no details yet on his condition.—TIMEMegyn Kelly Booed for Saying She Admires Donald TrumpMegyn Kelly was booed by the audience at a "Women in Entertainment" event after saying she had "high hopes" for Donald Trump. The FOX News star said, "There is much to admire about him... the more we understand that and understand why he won this election, the better off we'll be as a country."—The Hollywood ReporterRyan Adams Drops New Track and Album DetailsRyan Adams has announced the details of his 15th album Prisoner and has released its lead single "Do You Still Love Me?" The post-divorce album—Adams split with actress Mandy Moore last year—will be out February 17.—NoiseyLawmakers on Canadian Island Want to Trial Basic IncomeOfficials on Canada's Prince Edward Island have passed a motion urging the provincial government to try out universal basic income. Ontario is already set to test the idea of a non-strings attached payment for all citizens, which has been mostly marginalized as a policy idea in the modern US.—MotherboardIrish Government Seizes Growing Number of Abortion PillsAuthorities in the Republic of Ireland are seizing an increasing number of abortion pills entering the country, new figures obtained by Broadly show. Between 2011 and 2015, authorities intercepted 3,467 tablets commonly used to induce a medical abortion.—Broadly