A photo posted by Strike Gently Co. (@strikegentlyco) on   As the founder of Strike Gently Co, I deal in pins and patches daily. The Creators Project asked me to pull together a weekly roundup of the best newly-released pins. Most of these will probably sell out. If you like them, smash that “add to cart” button. Every Wednesday, you can head to the bottom of this article for an exclusive discount code so you can keep your pin game sharp.    It’s another week and we got some more pins. You want pins? We got em. Lots of pins. They run the whole gamut, folks—from obscure pop-cultural references to extremely accessible pop-cultural references. I was going to include a Pepe pin in here, but the Frog has officially been deemed a hate symbol by the ADL. LOL. In the age of information, memes can be weaponized, even if they are literally just Matt Furie cartoons. Anyway, hang on tight! 20% discount code at the end.  A photo posted by @electricgrandson on  This election is such a remarkable trash heap that passing gas in a crowded room is easily a less destructive act than voting. Farting, also known as flatulence, allows your body to extrude the extra nitrogen and oxygen gases produced during digestion. Without it, these vapors would have nowhere to go, and you would explode. Voting is a practice once valued by early democracies.  $10.00 here.  A photo posted by PeopleSuk (@pe0plesuk) on  Instead of dwelling on turd wind, let’s shift our focus to wisdom. Uncle Tito was a wise man, containing within him an infinitude of ancient Hawaiian wisdom and stereotypes, ready to drop science on So Cal skater kids whenever the episode requires a magical colored person. Wear him proud.  $9.00 here.  A photo posted by qvaAD (@quasivisualarts) on  Even before Bugs Bunny killed God, people have been talking about aliens. Are they out there? Have they visited us? Are they responsible for things like Mountain Dew: Code Red, The Voice, and Flamin’ Hot Cheetos Mozzarella Sticks? Did they in fact brainwash Nixon into removing the US from the gold standard? Who’s to say? It is, however, common knowledge that they built the pyramids.  $9.00 here.  A photo posted by @battlebornpins on  Stranger Things is one of those things that has somehow remained hip despite the over-enthusiasm. It’s a cool show but, like, chill out, everyone. I don’t get these bandwagon entertainment spectacles. Y'all are nerds, which is why if you wore this pin, it would be perfect. $10.00 here.  A photo posted by Heartificial (@heartificialpins) on  Now, this is what dreams are made of.   $10.00 here.  Thanks for reading, nerds. Get 20% off your order on my shop, Strike Gently Co, with code WOAH.  Related:  Say Waddup to Our Pin-of-the-Week  A Ship in a 40oz. Bottle Is Our Favorite Pin This Week  The Jeff Koons Balloon Dog Enamel Pin That Burst Our Bubble