In New York, huge crowds gathered in Union Square before marching 40 blocks to Trump Tower, blocking off the streets surrounding the luxury skyscraper where Trump dwells. We sent photographer Jessica Bal to the event to speak with protesters about the election results, the state of our country, and their hopes for the future. I'm shocked, feeling sad, angry, but also not surprised. This country has been built on this and my ancestors have survived far worse than this. They've survived slavery. They've survived colonization. And we'll survive this, but it's gonna be a real rough ride. I think we need to be prepared for the things we are upset about, his words, being put into action. We need to be prepared to act right away. We need to be prepared to go on the offense. You're either with us or you're not.–Nelini Stamp, 28 I'm absolutely disgusted at the choice our country has made. It's incredible to see that we've selected a president who's made his campaign on a platform of straight discrimination. What is this country? Half of the country doesn't believe in the rights of the rest of the country. Twelve hours ago I was sitting beside a close friend who was bawling her eyes out on the phone with her family in Mexico. Right now, this is just a beautiful feeling to be around so many people who have the same mindset and are geared toward making a difference.–Daequan Morrison, 18 I think it's important for us to take care of ourselves and take care of each other. It's hard to feel like your personhood is under attack, your womanhood is under attack, your immigration status is under attack. I would like to see people be more involved in their communities and to keep up the energy. Every four years we have this presidential election and then we forget, but we have people doing work in between. I want more people to do that.–Nitika Nadgar, 36 Definitely feeling surprise and shock, and this feeling when you wake up like the world has changed in a way you didn't expect. It's just nice to see that there are other people who feel strongly in the same way as we do.–Aileen, 22 It's hard to cope with at first. It's a whole range of emotions. We need to just keep pressure on Trump and Republicans when they take office next year. If they're not going to ensure checks and balances on each other, make sure people are holding them accountable.–Bruno, 22 I think what's important is we have 70 days until he in office, and in those 70 days, it's crucial to determine what we as the people can do. We can't sit down anymore. We have to be proactive. This is our awakening. It's truly as if I'm experiencing a death and the phases that you go through. It's important for young kids to understand the -isms. He will be experiencing them, so why do I need to mask it? He has to see this.–Lorial Crowder, 40, and son Noah Pasquarello, 9 I'm so frustrated. I think the blame is on the DNC. They chose an establishment candidate in Hillary Clinton. It was proven it was rigged. Bernie Sanders was beating Trump in the polls in the primaries and this wouldn't have happened if Bernie was the candidate. The DNC, they got what they deserved. It feels surreal that we're talking about Donald Trump as a president. It feels like a nightmare.–Allison Fernandez, 18 I think that it's going to have an impact all over the world, not only here in America. The politician elected [in Brazil] wasn't elected for the people. The things that happened there weren't fair for people, for the workers. I think here it can be the same if we don't take care, if we don't protest. I am afraid for my son also. I have hope. We have to protest. That's the way.–Greice Nascimento, 28, and son Gabriel, 7 months old