The man at the center of Republican in-fighting  The man at the center of Republican in-fighting  This piece first aired Oct. 11, 2016, on VICE News Tonight on HBO. Republican party organizers are scrambling to figure out how to win votes after Donald Trump’s misogynistic and racist rhetoric has egged the Republican party onto a steady path of implosion. Over sixty Republicans have turned their backs on the presidential candidate, including Utah representative Jason Chaffetz and Alabama’s GOP Representative Martha Roby. Traditional conservative newspapers, such as the Cincinnati Enquirer and the Dallas Morning News, have decided – many for the first time in decades – to endorse the Democratic nominee instead. In an ongoing feud, Speaker Paul D. Ryan has publicly rescinded his support of Trump though has yet to officially un-endorse him. As the election gets closer and the fighting continues, even the most traditionally Republican strongholds are looking a little shaky. This piece first aired Oct. 11, 2016, on VICE News Tonight on HBO. Republican party organizers are scrambling to figure out how to win votes after Donald Trump’s misogynistic and racist rhetoric has egged the Republican party onto a steady path of implosion. Over sixty Republicans have turned their backs on the presidential candidate, including Utah representative Jason Chaffetz and Alabama’s GOP Representative Martha Roby. Traditional conservative newspapers, such as the Cincinnati Enquirer and the Dallas Morning News, have decided – many for the first time in decades – to endorse the Democratic nominee instead. In an ongoing feud, Speaker Paul D. Ryan has publicly rescinded his support of Trump though has yet to officially un-endorse him. As the election gets closer and the fighting continues, even the most traditionally Republican strongholds are looking a little shaky. VICE News correspondent Evan McMorris-Santoro went to Ocala, Florida, to speak with the man in the middle of the Republican family fight.