At the Pistons morning shootaround, Stan Van Gundy went off on all those who voted for Donald Trump in a type of raw emotional rant rarely uttered by actual professional sporting types (as opposed to sports talk assholes), especially coming from the left-hand side. The whole tirade came after he noticed a bit of a somber mood on the team bus this morning. After initially thinking it had something to do with the Pistons' previous night's 32-point loss to the Clippers, he soon learned most players were pretty bummed out about the election. Stan Van, too. After mentioning that he didn't vote for George W. Bush, but found him to be an honorable man, Van Gundy unleashed on both the president-elect and those who elected him to the White House. You can find the whole six minute (!!) rant over at the Detroit Free Press. It is definitely worth your time. "For our country to be where we are now, who took a guy who - I don't care what anyone says, I'm sure they have other reasons and maybe good reasons for voting for Donald Trump - but I don't think anybody can deny this guy is openly and brazenly racist and misogynist and ethnic-centric, and say 'That's OK with us, we're going to vote for him anyway.' We have just thrown a good part of our population under the bus." Van Gundy didn't soft-pedal any of his morning-after rage. There were no calls for hearing, listening, moving forward, or whatever other pablum is in the ether today. He took it to 11, doubling down and spitting sheer anger all over, including evangelical Christians who pulled the holy lever for Trump. "I'm not a religious guy, but what the hell Bible are they reading? I'm dead serious. What Bible are you reading? And you're supposed to be — it's different. There are a lot of different groups we can be upset at. But you're Christians. You're supposed to be — at least you pride yourself on being the moral compass of our society. And you said, 'Yeah, the guy can talk about women like that. I'm fine with that.' He can disparage every ethnic group, and I'm fine with that. It's embarrassing. I have been ashamed of a lot of things that have happened in this country, but I can't say I've ever been ashamed of our country until today." Every good rant needs a good kicker, though, and Van Gundy's was no different: "That's it for me. I don't have anything to say about the game tonight." [Freep]