The election results may be in and Hillary Clinton may have conceded, but there is no shortage of strong feelings about the next four years of Trump. While some have taken to the streets to ("unfairly," in the president-elect's opinion) voice their outrage, others are wondering whom Trump will assemble to form his cabinet. But at the popular food delivery company GrubHub, the parent company of its eponymous delivery service and Seamless and MenuPages, the CEO is letting it be known that employees who espouse the type of language and message Trump used to garner support during his campaign should show themselves the door. On Wednesday, the day after the election, GrubHub CEO and co-founder Matt Maloney sent a company-wide email surveying—rather, digesting—the political landscape. In the email, which had a subject line of "So… that happened… what's next," Maloney said that had Trump been an employee at GrubHub, he would have been fired for his behavior. But in Maloney's attempt at advocacy of tolerance, some employees may have felt vilified. Maloney added that employees who embraced "nationalist, anti-immigrant and hateful politics of Donald Trump" should reply to the e-mail with their resignations. The e-mail was obtained by Fox News, which noted that, "if you voted for Donald Trump, you may not feel welcomed at GrubHub." Here's the e-mail. Reached for comment, a GrubHub spokesperson declined to say if anyone had taken up Maloney on his offer to resign, and told MUNCHIES that, "At Grubhub, we welcome and accept employees with all political beliefs, no matter who they voted for in this or any election. We do not discriminate on the basis of someone's principles, or otherwise. The message was intended to advocate for inclusion and tolerance—regardless of political affiliation—during this time of transition for our country." In a follow-up blog post titled "Inclusion and Tolerance in the Workplace," Maloney said the company respects all political beliefs and that some of his comments were misconstrued. "I want to clarify that I did not ask for anyone to resign if they voted for Trump," he wrote. "I would never make such a demand. To the contrary, the message of the email is that we do not tolerate discriminatory activity or hateful commentary in the workplace, and that we will stand up for our employees." Moreover, Maloney told Fox that roughly 20 percent of GrubHub employees thanked him for sending the e-mail. But today, GrubHub's stock has suffered by as much as 5 percent. So, America, here we are in 2016, the worst year in recent memory, and politics have invaded online food delivery, a most American service designed to streamline the highly enjoyable act of lazily stuffing your face. January can't come soon enough. Oh, wait…