Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE.  Trump Will Name Flynn as National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, a controversial retired general and former military intelligence chief who has been openly critical of President Barack Obama and appeared at Donald Trump rallies, has been asked to serve as Trump's national security adviser. Flynn has faced criticism over his praise of some foreign governments, particularly Russia. He was in Moscow last year for a celebration of RT, a Russian government-funded network, alongside President Vladimir Putin, an appearance for which he was paid.—AP  Trump Also Expected to Nominate Jeff Sessions and Michael Pompeo to Cabinet The president-elect is anticipated to formally nominated Jeff Sessions and Michael Pompeo to top posts. Sessions, a Republican senator from Alabama, is in line to become attorney general; he's been a longtime Trump supporter who shares Trump's hardline views on illegal immigration and was widely seen as a shoo-in for a cabinet position. In the 80s, he was nominated for a judgeship by Ronald Reagan but failed to be confirmed over accusations of racism. Pompeo, a Republican congressman from Kansas, is less controversial. –Politico  Fake News Writer Claims He Helped Trump WinThe author of hundreds of fake news articles has claimed he is partly responsible for making Donald Trump the next president. "Honestly, people are definitely dumber," said Paul Horner, who had stories that made it to Google News and were reposted by members of Trump's family. "Nobody fact checks anything anymore."—The Washington Post  White Democrat No-Shows to Blame for Clinton LossAnalysis of the swing states that decided the election revealed a significant drop in white Democrats turning out to vote. In Ohio, Wisconsin, and Iowa, nine overwhelmingly white counties saw turnout decline by at least 5 percent, and saw a drop in votes for Democrats while Republican vote totals remained relatively unchanged.—VICE News  Video Shows Police Officer Punching Woman in the FaceA video posted on Facebook clearly shows an Arizona police officer punching a woman in the face as he and another male officer attempt to arrest her. The Flagstaff Police Department said Officer Jeff Bonar had been identified and placed on administrative leave while the incident is investigated.—ABC News   Car Bomb at Iraqi Wedding Kills 40A suicide car bomb attack at a police officer's wedding in Iraq has killed at least 40 people and left at least 60 others wounded. No group has yet claimed responsibility the attack in Amiriyat al Fallujah, south of Fallujah, but authorities believe ISIS is behind it. The area has a history of opposing the extremist group.—Al Jazeera  Australian Man Sets Himself on Fire in BankA man used a flammable liquid to start a fire inside a bank in Melbourne, injuring at least 26 people, six of whom are in critical condition—including the man himself. After a civilian put the flames out with a fire extinguisher, the 21-year-old suspect was taken into police custody while receiving treatment.—BBC News  Former Dictator Gets Hero's Burial in PhilippinesThe former Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos has been buried with military honors in the country's Cemetery of Heroes in Manila, despite public protests in the capital and opposition from human rights groups. President Rodrigo Duterte wanted Marcos, who ruled for 20 years and died in 1989, to receive a hero's burial. The Marcos regime was notoriously corrupt and jailed and killed many of its opponents.—Reuters  German Automaker Volkswagen to Cut 30,000 Jobs German car giant Volkswagen has announced it will axe 30,000 jobs around the world, including 23,000 jobs in Germany. The company says this move will increase profits by $3.9 billion a year starting in 2020. The company is still reeling from the scandal surrounding its cheating on emission tests.—CNN  Bobbi Kristina Brown's Partner Ordered to Pay $36 MillionAn Atlanta judge has found Bobbi Kristina Brown's partner, Nick Gordon, "legally responsible" for her death in 2015. He has been ordered to pay Brown's family $36 million in civil damages. —USA Today  US Astronaut Becomes Oldest Woman in Space NASA astronaut Peggy Whitson, 56, has become the oldest woman in space after blasting off from Kazakhstan for her third mission on International Space Station (ISS). Whitson will turn 57 during her six-month mission. —CBS News  Phife Dawg Appears as Animation in A Tribe Called Quest Video A Tribute Called Quest's new video for "We the People" features deceased member Phife Dawg in animated form. He appears on a building as graffiti artwork and raps: "Dreaming of a world that's equal for women with no division."—Rolling Stone  Canadian Army Recruitment Website HackedThe Canadian Force's recruitment site was hacked on Thursday and briefly redirected visitors to the Chinese government's official website. A spokesperson said the army would not speculate "on the point of origin of the redirection."—VICE  Former Facebook Editor Says Fake News Could Be FixedA former Facebook news curator says the company could have easily have fixed its fake news problem if it hadn't let him and his colleagues go. Adam Schrader said Facebook's "journalistic integrity" vanished when it got rid of its trending news team, which was responsible for ensuring that stories in the trending section weren't made up.—VICE News  Apple Admits Its 'Touch Disease' ProblemApple has admitted that some iPhone 6 Pluses have a "touch disease" problem. The company announced that it would be selling $149 "repair program" for iPhone 6 Pluses that have lost touchscreen functionality because of an engineering flaw.—Motherboard