The Moon in Aquarius clashes with Mercury in Scorpio at 4:57 AM. Aquarius is logical, whereas Scorpio relies on intuition—try to find a good balance between these two modes of understanding the world. If you're stressed out about the election, use Aquarius's intellectual vibe to ground yourself by reading articles and listening to smart lectures. Positive vibes flow when the Moon and sweet, sexy Venus in Sagittarius connect at 8:55 AM, so your post-voting selfie will look cute, even if all of modern civilization is going to shit! The Moon enters sensitive, psychic Water sign Pisces at 4:45 PM: It will be an emotional day, and tears of all kinds (happiness, relief, joy, confusion and fear) will flow as a result of today's history-making election. All times EST. The first part of the day is very mentally active for you, Aries, but this evening you'll need to shut down and shut out reality. Zoning out with your TV sounds like a good plan. Meditating is even better! You're focus on your professional goals and your reputation during the first part of the day, but tonight's all about socializing, Taurus! This is a great evening to do some networking or to meet new people. Good vibes will flow in your relationships early today, but the second part of your day is more focused on your career and your reputation. The Moon enters fellow Water sign Pisces today, encouraging you to travel and learn new things. Pisces is the last sign of the zodiac: It's seen it all. Have you? Today is all about relationships and intimacy, Leo. Good vibes will flow early this morning, so if there's a date you want to go on, send that text sooner rather than later.  Tonight's all about relationship, Virgo! This evening the Moon will enter Pisces, your opposite sign. You're practical and logical, whereas Pisces doesn't know what the fuck it's doing. Not everyone can be as smart as you, Virgo. Drama pops up in early in the day, but so does a great opportunity to talk things out. You love talking, Libra, and unlike the other two Air signs, people actually love listening to you! (Gemini talks way too much, and Aquarius can be condescending, but you are perfect.) The Moon enters fellow Water sign Pisces today, bringing you creative inspiration, romance, and fun! Pisces is the sign of limitlessness. Don't forget that there are always choices. You might be a "fixed" sign—meaning you were born in the middle of the season—but that doesn't mean you're stuck. Spending time at home with your family (or the people you've made your family) is a wonderful way to work the Moon in Pisces's energy today. Reflect on what safety means to you and what your boundaries are. The Moon enters Pisces later today, lighting up the communication sector of your chart. Expect to do a lot of talking today! The energy is sensitive. Happy tears and sad tears will flow under the Pisces moon. The day begins with the Moon in your sign, but it won't be there forever! It will enter Pisces later today. Don't be sad: This will be a great time to work out issues you have concerning cash and self worth. The Moon enters your sign today, Pisces! This is the perfect time for you to make space for yourself to get grounded, reflect on your feelings, and get clear on your needs. The Moon is supporting you! What's in the stars for you in November? Read your monthly horoscope here. Want these horoscopes sent straight to your inbox? Click here to sign up for the newsletter.