Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Florida Prepares for Hurricane MatthewTropical storm conditions are expected in Florida Thursday as Hurricane Matthew hones in on the southeastern coast of the US. The government has urged or ordered more than 1.5 million people to leave coastal areas, and evacuations were ongoing throughout Wednesday in Georgia and South Carolina. If it makes landfall, Matthew will be the first major hurricane—it was deemed Category 4 Thursday—to hit the US mainland since Wilma in 2005.—NBC News FBI Arrests NSA Contractor Accused of Stealing Documents A Maryland man who worked as a contractor for the NSA has been arrested for allegedly stealing classified material (which was found in his home and car), US officials have announced. The FBI arrested Harold Thomas Martin III in August for "theft of government property and unauthorized removal and retention of classified materials."—VICE News Clinton Leads Trump in New Ohio Poll Hillary Clinton has a two-point edge on Donald Trump in the often pivotal swing state of Ohio, according to a fresh Monmouth University poll. It found 44 percent of Ohio's likely voters support Clinton compared to 42 percent supporting Trump, though Clinton is not performing as well with black, Asian, and Hispanic voters in Ohio as President Obama did in 2012. Other recent surveys have shown her trailing there.—CBS News Chicago Suspends Wells Fargo for One YearFollowing the examples of the state governments of California and Illinois, the Chicago City Council approved a one-year-suspension of Wells Fargo from city business due to its scandal with phony accounts. The bank will not be allowed to do any work with the city for the next 12 months. Alderman Edward Burke said he hoped it would "make it clear to other institutions this conduct is unacceptable."—Reuters Haiti Struggles to Start Relief Efforts After HurricaneRescue workers in Haiti are struggling to reach parts of the country cut off by Hurricane Matthew, with a key bridge down and roads impassable. The hurricane has caused terrible damage, killing at least 23 people and destroying many homes. Haiti's presidential election, due to take place this weekend, has been postponed.—BBC News Six Killed in Suspected Al Shabab Attack in KenyaThe al Shabab militant group is suspected of killing at least six people in an attack on a residential compound in northeast Kenya. Attackers used a grenade to break in before shooting those inside. The local governor said it was "obviously" al Shabab, the Somali Islamist group that has carried out attacks in neighboring Kenya.—CBC News Israel Intercepts Activist Boat Bound for GazaIsrael's navy has intercepted an all-female activist boat from Spain seeking to break the country's blockade of the Gaza Strip and deliver aid. The boat was boarded by the navy, directed to shore, and all 13 women—including 1976 Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead Maguire—were taken into Israeli government custody.—Al Jazeera Portugal's Guterres Set to Become UN ChiefPortugal's former prime minister António Guterres is poised to become the next UN secretary general, according to UN diplomats. A formal vote will take place in the security council on Thursday to confirm the choice to succeed Ban Ki-moon in 2017. Guterres, 67, was the "clear favorite," according to Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin.—The Guardian Drake Postpones Summer Sixteen Shows Drake has been forced to postpone his upcoming shows in Toronto, Philadelphia, and Newark due to an ankle injury. "I will make it up to you," the rapper wrote on OVO's blog, promising "new music and a stronger ankle."—Rolling Stone Empire Cast Endorse Hillary ClintonThe cast of the hit TV show Empire have voiced their support for Hillary Clinton in a new video endorsing the Democratic nominee. "There's only one person in this race who said Black Lives Matter," according to actor Bryshere Gray, who plays Hakeem Lyon.—Billboard Nine Australians Who Stripped in Malaysia Freed Nine Australian men arrested for indecency after stripping down to scandalous swimsuits at the Malaysian Formula One Grand Prix have been freed. They pleaded guilty to causing a public nuisance and apologized.—TIME Grimes Drops Four New Videos The artist has released four new vids for tracks off her album Art Angels. She announced on Twitter says that she and her brother Mac have shot seven music videos in all while touring Europe, all filmed on phones.—Noisey Theranos to Shut Controversial Blood ClinicsAfter months of scrutiny from regulators and the press, controversial blood-testing startup Theranos has announced that it will close its clinical labs and lay off 340 employees. CEO Elizabeth Holmes said the company will focus on a smaller blood-testing device.— VICE News Feds Accuses Two Teenagers of DDoS Attack Hacks The FBI is accusing two teenagers of being members of the hacking groups Lizard Squad and PoodleCorp. American Zachary Buchta, 19, and Dutch native Bradley Jan Willem Van Rooy, also 19, have been charged with crimes associated with distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks.—Motherboard