Whether it's for playing out at a club or listening at home, DJs and producers typically have an encyclopedic hoard of music, new and old. In The Last Record, they tell us about the last three songs or albums they've purchased, and why these were important additions to their music collection. This week, we spoke with Shrimp Traxx. Last week, disco DJ Marty Mars selected Shrimp Traxx's "Jersey Trade" as one of his favorite new purchases. Shrimp Traxx is a DJ and producer based in Vienna, Austria. He made his recording debut this year with the release of The Shrimp Tape EP on Bons Records.  "I prefer to go out to a record store instead of buying online because it's so much more fun to talk to people and hear their opinions on good music," he said. "You will never find this in an online store." Here are his selections from his most recent weekly trip to his favorite record store, Das Market, in Vienna.  The is from Mall Grab on Hot Haus Records. I found this artist through Soundcloud. It seems to me that Australia is, at the moment, a melting pot for young, talented artists. This track, for me, represents a whole bunch of great, inspiring producers like Shedbug, Hymns, Rudolf C and many more. The whole record is a club banger with nice, DJ-friendly intros and fat drums. It's perfect for peak time in the club. I guess this track, which is my favorite, samples Doc Severinsen's "I Wanna Be With You." The first track on the B side is called "Kallumbo." It reminds me of a 90s rave party. It makes people jump around and enjoy themselves. It's a re-press from 2016. The original record was released in 1992. After more than 20 years, this still makes people dance. It's a timeless classic. The track "Amazon" is a great intro, making you literally feel like you're in the Amazon. "Jupiter Jazz" has a great, uplifting vibe with a cool acid melody. The other side has a much more chill vibe. "Cosmic Traveller" gives you a smooth feeling, with its swinging percussions paired with a cool acid baseline. "Greater Than Yourself" is another beauty, with a 303 bassline, spheric pad sounds and nice percussion. The whole record has a dark, acid house flavor and should be played at a dark techno club at a high decibel level. "Never" is my favorite track on the record. I like the drifting acid line combined with the evil vocals. It's such a hypnotic track; you could dance to this for hours. "Real Melbourne House" has a much more spaced-out vibe. It starts with some weird, arpeggiated synth sounds and an old school, acid house groove. The second track of the B side is called "Stakan Acid." It's the slowest track of the record with nice, 808-style drums paired with a weird synth line and some crazy vocals. It's perfect for bringing a kind of cool down on the dance floor.