2016 has been a real doozy, but that doesn't mean we didn't eat, drink, and experience some of the greatest food moments on MUNCHIES: The Podcast during the painful process. We milked cows in Copenhagen, hung out on an anarchist commune, drank whiskey with some spirits in Greenwood Cemetery, ate BBQ with the Deftones, and explored racism in the food space. If you missed out on these moments, don't fret. Cruise over to our podcast page to catch up on all of this year's episodes. And since it's the holidays, here are the five best moments from the podcast to speed you up on what to talk about with relatives during the holidays instead of the election. You're welcome. Rachael Ray on Not Being a Slacker "If you have ten fingers and ten toes, you have no reason to cry, so get over yourself. Work harder than everybody else and don't complain about it. Understand that work is a privilege, not a right."  Waiting for Chicken Shit Bingo To Happen "You never know how long it's gonna take for a chicken to take a shit. Sometimes it takes two seconds, and the longest it's taken is an hour and 39 minutes."  Jonathan Gold on His Nickname, "Nervous Cuz," Given to Him By Dr. Dre "I started writing about hip-hop in Los Angeles pretty early on because punk music had gotten pretty dull (in 84', 85'). There was so much energy in the shows that I was going to… Nobody was writing about LA hip-hop. I did a piece on Eazy-E early on because "Boys in the Hood" was inescapable as you were driving around the city. And I started meeting with the band [Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg] at Junior's Deli in Westwood of all places. They gave me the nickname "Nervous Cuz" but I'm not sure where it came from. I don't know, maybe I seemed nervous to them."  Niki Nakayama of N/Naka on Balance "For me, every element of our dishes needs to have meaning. I do so by setting little guidelines on how I should build each dish. So the concept (for me) is that in Japanese, our alphabet's syllables are also used for seasoning. You add ingredients in the order of the syllables. So you always add sugar first, then salt, then vinegar, and then if you need it, you can also add soy sauce. And then if you are going to do something after that, you can use miso. When I'm putting it together, every single elements is separated, but they're also connected."  Anthony Bourdain on the Future "Look, as dim a view as I have of the future right now—at it's pretty damn grim—don't be a hashtag activist. Change is gonna take some fucking time. Dig in for the long haul, spend some time with the enemy. Walk around in someone else's shoes. Try to get your priorities pretty reasonable. A little love. Some good pasta. Some spicy noodles. That's survival."  Thanks for listening. We've got a lot more good shit in store for you in 2017, so stay tuned.