The New York Jets are going with Bryce Petty as their starting quarterback against the Los Angeles Rams.

The New York Jets are going with Bryce Petty as their starting quarterback against the Los Angeles Rams. It's the first regular-season start for Petty, a fourth-round draft pick out of Baylor last year. He replaces Ryan Fitzpatrick, who was listed as questionable with a sprained left knee suffered last Sunday at Miami. Fitzpatrick is still on the active roster. The Carolina Panthers will be without starting All-Pro center Ryan Kalil for a second straight week because of a shoulder injury, meaning Gino Gradkowski will get the start. Middle linebacker Derrick Johnson will play for the Kansas City Chiefs. The Houston Texans will be without starting receiver Will Fuller (knee) and run-stopping nose tackle Vince Wilfork (groin) at Jacksonville on Sunday. Fuller has 25 catches for 372 yards and two touchdowns as a rookie. With fellow receiver Jaelen Strong also inactive, former Ohio State star Braxton Miller will start in his place. The Texans have three healthy receivers: DeAndre Hopkins, Miller and Keith Mumphrey. Jacksonville Jaguars receiver Allen Hurns, who leads the team with 443 yards receiving, is active and in the starting lineup. He was cleared to play Friday after spending the week in the NFL's concussion protocol. Washington benched running back Matt Jones, making him inactive after he had trouble holding onto the football, and also was without wideout DeSean Jackson, who is sidelined with an injured left shoulder. Jones, a third-round draft pick in 2015 who began the season as the starter, has been demoted in favor of undrafted rookie Robert Kelley. Tampa Bay running back Doug Martin is active, returning from a hamstring injury that has sidelined him since Week 2. Martin is a two-time Pro Bowl selection who rushed for 1,402 yards last season, second in the NFL behind Adrian Peterson. He was injured during the Buccaneers' loss at Arizona on Sept. 18. The Bucs have used three starting running backs in his absence, including Jacquizz Rodgers, who is inactive Sunday with a foot injury. Minnesota was without cornerback Captain Munnerlyn, who hurt his ankle last week. Green Bay already had declared linebacker Clay Matthews out for a third straight game because of a lingering hamstring issue. The Packers also scratched tight end Jared Cook against his former team, the Tennessee Titans. For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/AP_NFL