Presidential candidate and self-proclaimed billionaire Donald Trump proved the old saying about nothing good happening on Twitter after midnight early Friday morning, when he dropped a string of vitriolic tweets at 5 AM ranting about Alicia Machado—the former Miss Universe winner who became a focal point during last Monday's debate when Clinton blasted Trump for insulting Machado over her weight and heritage. "Wow, Crooked Hillary was duped and used by my worst Miss U," Trump tweeted at sunrise on Friday. "Hillary floated her as an 'angel' without checking her past, which is terrible!"  He continued, tweeting, "Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a US citizen so she could use her in the debate?"  The alleged "sex tape" Trump is referring to doesn't actually exist, though, according to Snopes—the only real footage Trump could be referring to would be grainy footage from the Spanish version of The Real World of Machado allegedly sleeping with another contestant. Of course, as Snopes points out and Donald Trump should know, reality TV is not exactly reality and the whole thing could very well have been staged.  It's unclear why Trump said Clinton called Machado an "angel," something she never said during the debate; all she did was highlight his calling her "Miss Piggy" and "Miss Housekeeping," a story Trump himself has kept alive by talking about her repeatedly this week and insisting he was correct for getting her to lose weight.  One incident from Machado's past that Trump may have been referencing but didn't specifically address is the time Machado drove the getaway car for a murderer, but he apparently opted to go with the "sex tape" thing instead.  "Using Alicia M in the debate as a paragon of virtue just shows that Crooked Hillary suffers from BAD JUDGEMENT! Hillary was set up by a con," another of Trump's tweets read.  T-minus 38 days until the election.  Update: Hillary Clinton (or her team) responded on Friday with her own series of tweets, writing, "What kind of man stays up all night to smear a woman with lies and conspiracy theories?... When something gets under Donald's thin skin, he lashes out and can't let go. This is dangerous for a president... Trump obsessively bullies Rosie O'Donnell—an accomplished actor. He insulted Kim Kardashian for her weight—when she was pregnant. Pathetic. We've heard Donald's insults for years, and his policies reflect this disregard—even contempt—for women."  Read: We Asked Alien Experts Who They'd Want as President if UFOs Landed