A photo posted by Craig & Karl (@craigandkarl) on  There's art that's great, and then there's art that's great for Instagram. While the two aren't mutually exclusive, most of our site is devoted to the former this weekend. This article is a safe space for the latter. These thirteen pieces are the like-rockets that have been showing up over and over on the art world's Instagram feed. If you're in Miami this weekend, make sure to pay these artworks an IRL visit to cash in on likes and FOMO re-grams from your friends and frienemies back home. Most of the Instagram winners are, unsurprisingly, sculptures and interactive installations. The undisputed champ is Ugo Rondinone's Miami Mountain presented by The Bass Museum. It's a travel-sized (albeit 42-foot-tall) version of his monumental Las Vegas sculpture Seven Magic Mountains. The runner up is easily Damien Hirst's Gone But Not Forgotten at the Faena Hotel, a gold-plated mammoth encased in one of the prolific British artist's iconic glass boxes. One sculpture by Saya Woolfalk, an ornate pyramid-shaped throne that lights up hot pink at night, is clearly designed to be a selfie op. These three examples have an Instagram advantage, since they're open to the public and have much higher visibility than artwork trapped inside the multitude of art fairs in Miami this weekend. The main attractions within the fairs are pieces that stand out amongst gallerists hawking their most profitable wares. Political statements such as Sam Durant's blaring red lightbox demanding, "END WHITE SUPREMACY," are appealing amidst the biggest art world bacchanal since November's election. Otherwise, vibrant works with inherent selfie-friendliness jump out amidst the sea of fine art. Below is your Miami itinerary, detailing the fairs' best eye-popping imagery and where to find them.  A photo posted by Jason Campbell (@jasoncampbellstudio) on  A photo posted by LeBasse Projects (@lebasseprojects) on  A photo posted by pjudelson (@pjudelson) on  Just across the street from #ArtBasel’s Public sector—on the Oceanfront (between 21st & 22nd St)—you’ll find #SunXun’s 'Reconstruction of the Universe,' created for the second Audemars Piguet Art Commission. Xun’s large-scale, multimedia installation features a series of animated films created using classic Chinese graphic techniques projected in 2D + 3D onto flat and spherical screens under the structure’s poetic bamboo canopy. See it in action December 1–3, 5pm to 10pm c/o @audemarspiguetexperience. #APxART  A photo posted by Art Basel (@artbasel) on  A video posted by @fran_cisska on  Shoutout to the @pamm security guard for helping me art direct this Instagram. #JulioLeParc  A photo posted by JiaJia Fei  (@vajiajia) on  A photo posted by Jeannette Handler Photography (@jeannette.handler) on  A photo posted by Giudecca795 (@giudecca795) on  A photo posted by The Creators Project (@creators_project) on  A photo posted by Karen (@karenpierock) on  A video posted by Robin Van Auken (@robinauken) on  A photo posted by Cravotta Interiors (@cravottainteriors) on  A photo posted by Veronica Crosa (@reinita_crosa) on  A photo posted by Camille Lasker (@camilllionare) on  A photo posted by Gino R. Campodonico (@ginocampodonico) on  A photo posted by Phil Shaw  (@phil_shaw) on  A photo posted by PULSE Contemporary Art Fair (@pulseartfair) on See more of Miami Art Week on Instagram. Tag us in your must-see selfies at @Creators_Project. Related: Here's Some Digital Sunshine to Distract from Miami Art Week | GIF Six-Pack Party Like an Art Star Under This Mind-Bending Virtual Dome in Miami An Artist Designed the Perfect Seats for Comfortably Checking Your Phone