To what can only be described as uninhibited joy on the part of Donald Trump and his supporters, the FBI announced Friday that it is renewing its probe of Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server while serving as secretary of state, NBC News reports. FBI director James Comey detailed the move in a (some say weirdly) brief letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee, explaining, "In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation." According to the New York Times, that "unrelated case" is the one the FBI is conducting on Anthony Weiner, for allegedly sexting a 15-year-old girl. After seizing electronic devices from both he and his wife, top Clinton aide Huma Abedin, the FBI believes it found new files relating to the Clinton case. Comey continued, "I agreed that the FBI should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to our investigation." The FBI announced in July that "no reasonable prosecutor" would pursue criminal charges against the Democratic nominee after its lengthy investigation found that Clinton and her staff had sent and received 110 classified emails, eight of which were "top secret." Comey instead said Clinton and her staff had been "extremely careless." In the letter, Comey did not specify when the renewed probe would take place, but with the election less than two weeks away, the news alone could dent Clinton's lead over Donald Trump. For his part, the GOP nominee quickly celebrated the news during a feisty campaign event in New Hampshire. "Hillary Clinton's corruption is on a scale that we have never seen before," he said. "We must not let her take her are criminal scheme into the Oval Office. I have great respect for the fact that the FBI and the Department of Justice are now willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made." Read: The Agony of the Campaign Won't End on Election Day