Everyone has an opinion on President Trump  Everyone has an opinion on President Trump  The world woke up on Wednesday morning to the news that, against all odds, the United States had elected Donald Trump as its 45th president. Voices abroad described the surprise victory as “a huge shock,” “bigger than Brexit,” and “a real sensation.” One German official characterized President-elect Trump as the “pioneer of a new authoritarian and chauvinist international movement.” Trump’s win sent shockwaves through international markets and obliterated most predictions from pollsters and pundits, who are just now coming to terms with the stunning victory.  During his acceptance speech in the early hours of Wednesday morning, Trump took a conciliatory tone. The president-elect said the U.S. would have “great, great relationships” with other countries and that he would “seek partnership, not conflict.” So how have those countries reacted to his shock election? The world woke up on Wednesday morning to the news that, against all odds, the United States had elected Donald Trump as its 45th president. Voices abroad described the surprise victory as “a huge shock,” “bigger than Brexit,” and “a real sensation.” One German official characterized President-elect Trump as the “pioneer of a new authoritarian and chauvinist international movement.” Trump’s win sent shockwaves through international markets and obliterated most predictions from pollsters and pundits, who are just now coming to terms with the stunning victory.  During his acceptance speech in the early hours of Wednesday morning, Trump took a conciliatory tone. The president-elect said the U.S. would have “great, great relationships” with other countries and that he would “seek partnership, not conflict.” So how have those countries reacted to his shock election? The U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May congratulated Trump in a statement and added that the countries have an enduring and special relationship based on freedom, democracy, and enterprise. Elsewhere in the U.K., the former leader of the pro-Brexit, right-wing Independence Party, Nigel Farage, who stumped for Trump during the campaign, told the Telegraph that this would be “bigger than Brexit.” He added that 2016 could be “the year of two great political revolutions.” Early-morning reports also said Farage was on his way to the U.S.:  Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau congratulated Trump on Wednesday morning, saying: “The relationship between our two countries serves as a model for the world. Our shared values, deep cultural ties, and strong integrated economies will continue to provide the basis for advancing our strong and prosperous partnership.” Russia  Russian news agency Interfax reported that President Vladimir Putin, who has been accused of interfering in the U.S. election, sent a telegram to Trump saying he hoped “to work together for removing Russian-American relations from their crisis state.” Putin later tweeted his congratulations. Liberal Democratic party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky went a step further. “We of course regard with satisfaction that the better candidate of the two presented to the American voters was victorious,” Interfax reported.  Zhirinovsky also took a shot at current U.S. Ambassador to Russia John Tefft. “We hope that this ambassador leaves Russia …. He hates Russia.” Russia’s official Rossiya 1 TV described Donald Trump’s win as “a real sensation.” Its Washington correspondent described it as “a political earthquake in the U.S. and the world, a historic fait accompli.” Germany In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel offered “close cooperation” with the new president.  Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen called his win a “huge shock.” She told broadcaster ARD: “I think Trump knows that this was not a vote for him but rather against Washington, against the establishment.” She added: “We Europeans obviously know that as partners in NATO, Donald Trump will naturally ask, ‘What are you achieving for the alliance?’ but we will also ask, ‘What’s your stand toward the alliance?'” The German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel told Funke Media Group that Trump is the “pioneer of a new authoritarian and chauvinist international movement.” France  French President François Hollande said Trump’s victory “opens up a period of uncertainty.” French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen, on the other hand, congratulated Trump and “the free American people!” on Twitter. Her father, Jean Marie Le Pen, founder of the National Front party, echoed her views and said “Long live President Trump!” He also claimed this was the beginning of a worldwide populist wave.  “The American people want Donald Trump to be the people’s president. Today the United States; tomorrow, France. Bravo!” Mexico President Enrique Peña Nieto hasn’t been shy in his criticism of Trump, especially his claims of forcing Mexico to pay for a wall between the two countries. After Trump’s victory, however, Nieto took to Twitter to voice his willingness to work with the president-elect. Nieto called the U.S. and Mexico friends that “should continue to work together for the competitiveness and development of North America.” The EU European Parliament President Martin Schulz said he hoped for “rational cooperation” with Trump after a bitter political campaign.  “Mr. Trump has managed to become the standard-bearer of the angst and fears of millions of Americans. Those concerns must now be addressed with credible policies,” Schulz said.  He added that Trump would be busy with diplomacy from the start.  “From Syria to Iraq, from Ukraine to Libya, Trump’s role in diplomacy and deal-making will be tested from day one.” EU chiefs Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker extended their “sincere congratulations.” Greece  Elsewhere in Europe, Greece’s far right Golden Dawn party celebrated Trump’s victory. A party spokesman called it a victory for ethnically “clean” states. “This was a victory for the forces which oppose globalization, are fighting illegal migration and are in favor of clean ethnic states, in favor of self-sufficiency in the national economy,” he said in a statement. “A great global change is starting, which will continue with nationalists prevailing in Austria, Marine Le Pen in France, and Golden Dawn in Greece.” Israel  “President-elect Trump is a true friend of the State of Israel,” President Benjamin Netanyahu said.  He congratulated the new American leader.  “I look forward to working with him to advance security, stability, and peace in our region.” China Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said China will work with the new U.S. president to ensure the steady and sound development of bilateral ties. The Philippines Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte congratulated Trump and said they will work together to enhance ties. “President Duterte wishes President-elect Trump success in the next four years as Chief Executive and commander-in chief of the U.S. military and looks forward to working with the incoming administration for enhanced Philippines-U.S. relations anchored on mutual respect, mutual benefit, and shared commitment to democratic ideals and the rule of law,” the Office of Communications Secretary said in a statement. Japan Japan has already sent a top government official to Washington, where he hopes to meet with leaders in the next White House administration. “We have been preparing so that we can respond to any situation because our stance is that our alliance with the U.S. remains to be the cornerstone of our diplomacy whoever becomes the next president,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said. NATO NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said he looks forward to meeting Trump soon and will welcome him to the next NATO summit in Brussels in 2017. Turkey  Turkey’s Prime Minister Binali Yildirim congratulated President-elect Trump and urged him to extradite U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Ankara has accused of orchestrating a failed coup in July. South Korea Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se said he believes Donald Trump will maintain the current U.S. policy of pressuring North Korea over its nuclear and missile tests. “Trump has indicated that the greatest problem facing the world is the nuclear threat, and members of his national security team hold the position that favors applying strong pressure against the North,” he said. Cuba Speaking of Cuba’s leaders, Communist Party member, noted economist, and political scientist Esteban Morales told the Telesur network that “they must be worried because I think this represents a new chapter.” India Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi welcomed Trump’s election.  The world’s newspapers  The Times of London: El Pais: Hamburger Morgenpost:  Libération: The Times of India: It's official! @realDonaldTrump grabs America by the…https://t.co/EPAhxEQ84E New Zealand Herald: Le Monde: Mexico’s Reforma: