Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Trump to Meet Japanese Prime Minister in New YorkDonald Trump will hold his first meeting with a foreign head of state as president-elect Thursday when he meets Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe in New York. Abe said he was "honored" to be "ahead of other world leaders." An aide to Abe said that members of Trump's team explained that any statements made about Japan by the Republican during the election campaign should not be taken literally.—CNN Clinton Urges Followers to 'Never, Ever Give Up'In her first speech since the one conceding the election, Hillary Clinton told her supporters to "never, ever give up" and to "stay engaged." Clinton admitted to the crowd at a Children's Defense Fund gala in Washington, DC, that there had been moments in the past week when she wanted "to curl up... and never leave the house again."—NBC News US Companies Urge Trump to Stay in Climate Pact More than 300 companies and major investors signed a joint letter urging President-elect Donald Trump not to pull the US out of the Paris Climate Agreement, the international deal to reduce global warming. Gap, Intel, Mondelez International, Kellogg Company, and Mars Inc. all signed the letter.—VICE News Cop Charged with Manslaughter in Philando Castile ShootingJeronimo Yanez, the Minnesota police officer who shot and killed 32-year-old Philando Castile back in July, has been charged with second-degree manslaughter and dangerous discharge of a weapon.—VICE Children's Hospital Hit in Blitz on AleppoA children's hospital and medical blood bank have been struck during the renewed Syrian government offensive on rebel-held eastern Aleppo. According to information from activist groups inside the city, at least 84 people were killed and dozens more wounded over the past 48 hours or so of airstrikes and general bombardment.—Al Jazeera Philippines' Duterte Considers Withdrawing from ICCRodrigo Duterte might join Vladimir Putin by pulling his country out of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The president of the Philippines called the global institution "useless" on Thursday, a day after the Russian president signed an order to remove that country from the ICC's founding treaty.—Reuters Protestors Occupy Brazilian Congress in Call for Military CoupDozens of protestors who want a return to military rule in Brazil occupied the nation's lower chamber of Congress for several hours on Wednesday. At least 40 demonstrators smashed a glass door and tussled with guards to make their point in front of the assembled press. Brazil was run by the military between 1964 and 1985.—BBC News Australian State Rejects Voluntary Euthanasia A bill designed to legalize voluntary euthanasia in South Australia lost by a single vote, 24 to 23, in the state parliament on Thursday. Regional Premier Jay Weatherill, who supported the bill to allow those with terminal illness the option of assisted suicide, said he was "gutted" by the defeat.—AP Robert DeNiro Among Medal of Freedom WinnersRobert DeNiro, Tom Hanks, Bruce Springsteen, Michael Jordan, and Bill and Melinda Gates are among President Obama's final 21 honorees for the Presidential Medal of Freedom. They will all receive the award at a White House ceremony on Tuesday.—AP Slavery Novel Wins the National Book Award Colson Whitehead has won the National Book Award for fiction for The Underground Railroad, a novel about a female slave who uses a literal underground locomotive to obtain freedom. Referring to "Trumpland" in his acceptance speech, Whitehead said: "Be kind to everybody, make art, and fight the power."—The New York Times Secret 'Doll' Pyramid Found Inside Mexico's KukulkanArcheology experts have found a third pyramid hidden inside the two existing structures that make up the Mayan-built Kukulkan pyramid in Mexico. Project chief Rene Chavez Seguro said it resembled "a Russian nesting doll."—AFP Metallica Reveal Videos for Comeback Album TracksMetal legends Metallica have shared a series of stunning videos ahead of the release of its first album in eight years this Friday. The gory video for "ManUNkind," directed by Jonas Åkerlund, features actor Rory Culkin.—Noisey Pluto Likely Holds an Ocean of Water, Scientists SayAccording to a new paper published in Nature, there is likely a viscous ocean of water beneath the surface of Pluto's red, heart-shaped region. The water layer "might be 100 km thick," according to MIT professor Richard Binzel.—Motherboard Canadian Weed Companies Break Nation's Stock MarketSix marijuana-related companies had their trading on the Canadian stock market TSX halted after they tripped a circuit breaker during a massive spike in stock prices. Some of the legal weed firms experienced up to a 44 percent price surge.—VICE