The pre-election day debate as to how the Trump candidacy will affect his brand has now morphed into a hyper-speculative opinion-fest as to how his presidency will impact his products and properties. But President-elect Trump is not the only one whose commercial endeavors are feeling the pain that comes along with the widespread uncertainty and divisiveness that has followed his election. Kellogg Co. has just announced that it is pulling ads on Breitbart News, formerly run by Steve Bannon, now the chief strategist to the social-media addict that will soon be President. Breitbart is the "alt-right" news organization behind headlines such as "Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy," "Political Correctness Protects Muslim Rape Culture," and "There's No Hiring Bias Against Women in Tech, They Just Suck At Interviews." There's no denying that Breitbart News has propagated half-truths, right-wing conspiracy theories, and controversial opinions about women and minorities, among others—not that any of that matters in a "post-truth" world. But Kellogg—along with Allstate, Warby Parker, and EarthLink—have decided that advertising on the site is not an association they'd like to keep. https://t.co/1xoBSoCc9U "If Kellog's says bye bye to Breitbart, then we can L'eggo that Eggo. Boycott Kellog's Brands!" Kris Charles, a Kellogg spokesperson explains, "We regularly work with our media-buying partners to ensure our ads do not appear on sites that aren't aligned with our values as a company. We recently reviewed the list of sites where our ads can be placed and decided to discontinue advertising on Breitbart.com. We are working to remove our ads from that site." Gonna have to buy a few boxes of Kellog's tomorrow.... just because I greatly appreciate what they're trying to do. https://t.co/kRh3KpgHqb Breitbart's Network Chief Executive Officer Larry Solov told Bloomberg earlier this month that the site "has always and continues to condemn racism and bigotry in any form." A quick glance at the site suggests otherwise, by some standards. MUNCHIES reached out to both the Kellogg Company and Breitbart for comment, but has yet to hear back from either. According to ComScore, Breitbart had 19.2 million unique monthly visitors from the US last month—up from 12.9 million a year ago. The site's appeal to Trump's supporters and the growing alt-right movement have likely been responsible for much of that boost in traffic. In 2016, even our breakfast cereal is political. Editor's note: Since this article was published, Beritbart News released an article titled "#DumpKelloggs: Breakfast Brand Blacklists Breitbart, Declares Hate for 45,000,000 Readers," in which the publication calls itself "one of the world's top news publishers" and claims Kellogg's decision "appears to be one more example of an out-of-touch corporation embracing false left-wing narratives used to cynically smear the hard working Americans that populate this nation's heartland." The "alt-right" publication has also started a petition to boycott Kellogg's, asking its readers to "Join the Movement Against Kellogg's Bigotry." The Editor-in-Chief for Breitbart News, Alexander Marlow, told readers, "If you serve Kellogg's products to your family, you are serving up bigotry at your breakfast table."