A Nevada judge has no patience for Trump’s early voting lawsuit  A Nevada judge has no patience for Trump’s early voting lawsuit  UPDATE (Nov. 8, 3:15 p.m. EST): A Nevada judge denied the Trump campaign’s request to hand over information about poll workers as part of a lawsuit filed Tuesday over early voting hours in Clark County. And Judge Gloria Sturman did not hold back from telling the attorney representing the Republican nominee exactly what she thought of the unusual request.  “What are you asking for?” “Why are you here,” Sturman asked repeatedly. “What are you saying?”  Brian Hardy appeared in court Tuesday on behalf of the Trump campaign to discuss the lawsuit’s demands that the Clark County clerk preserve and effectively make public information about the people who worked the polls on Friday. The campaign alleges the polls were kept open two hours past their scheduled closing time in an intentional bid to benefit Democrats. “Why would you be entitled to this information?” Sturman asked. “I’m really troubled by this. … These are people who gave up their time to work in an election, or citizens who believe in the right to vote. It’s disturbing to me that those individuals might be harassed.”  “There would be no harassment,” Hardy responded. UPDATE (Nov. 8, 3:15 p.m. EST): A Nevada judge denied the Trump campaign’s request to hand over information about poll workers as part of a lawsuit filed Tuesday over early voting hours in Clark County. And Judge Gloria Sturman did not hold back from telling the attorney representing the Republican nominee exactly what she thought of the unusual request.  “What are you asking for?” “Why are you here,” Sturman asked repeatedly. “What are you saying?”  Brian Hardy appeared in court Tuesday on behalf of the Trump campaign to discuss the lawsuit’s demands that the Clark County clerk preserve and effectively make public information about the people who worked the polls on Friday. The campaign alleges the polls were kept open two hours past their scheduled closing time in an intentional bid to benefit Democrats. “Why would you be entitled to this information?” Sturman asked. “I’m really troubled by this. … These are people who gave up their time to work in an election, or citizens who believe in the right to vote. It’s disturbing to me that those individuals might be harassed.”  “There would be no harassment,” Hardy responded. “Do you watch Twitter?” Sturman replied. Original post continues below: Donald Trump’s campaign filed a lawsuit Tuesday in Nevada claiming that Clark County benefited Democrats by keeping polling stations open two hours beyond when early voting was supposed to close on Friday. Clark County, which encompasses Las Vegas, is more than 30 percent Hispanic. An enormous surge in early votes cast by Latinos in Nevada boosted Hillary Clinton, giving her a nearly 73,000-vote edge over Trump in the state ahead of Election Day, the Reno Gazette-Journal reported Sunday. Jon Ralston, a political analyst in Nevada, predicted that those votes meant Nevada would go blue. In the suit, Trump’s campaign alleges that the Clark County registrar’s decision to keep early polls open “very much appears to have been intentionally coordinated with Democratic activists in order to skew the vote unlawfully in favor of Democratic candidates.” Nevada voting laws say the polls have to stay open to accommodate everyone waiting in line.  Trump said Saturday that keeping the polls open for voters waiting in line was further evidence of a “rigged system,” according to ABC News. “It’s being reported that certain key Democratic polling locations in Clark County were kept open for hours and hours beyond closing time to bus and bring Democratic voters in.”  State GOP chairman and Trump supporter Michael McDonald also cried foul on Saturday, speaking at an event for his party’s nominee in Reno. “Last night in Clark County, they kept a poll open till 10 o’clock at night so a certain group could vote,” McDonald said, according to Politico. “It wasn’t in an area that normally has high transition. The polls are supposed to close at 7. This was kept open till 10. Yeah, you feel free right now? Think this is a free or easy election?” Representatives for the Clark County registrar did not immediately respond to requests for comment from VICE News on Tuesday, but Ralston tweeted this statement from the county: