Everything you need to know about the world this morning, curated by VICE. Another Device Explodes in New Jersey A suspicious device found near a New Jersey transit station exploded Monday morning as a police robot was examining it. It follows Saturday's explosion in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood that wounded 29 people, and an explosion at Seaside Park in New Jersey that caused no injuries. Authorities are now engaged in a manhunt for an Elizabeth, New Jersey, man named Ahmad Khan Rahami who they believe may be connected to the bombing in New York. —NBC News FBI Probes Minnesota Stabbings as Potential TerrorismThe FBI is investigating the contacts and possible motivation of a Somali man who wounded nine people at a Minnesota mall after ISIS claimed credit for the knife attack. Police said Dahir A Adan, 22, mentioned Allah during the attacks at the St. Cloud mall on Saturday evening before an off-duty police officer shot him. —Minneapolis Star-Tribune Clinton Losing Support Among MillennialsThe latest national polls and swing state surveys show support for Hillary Clinton sliding with voters under 35. A national Quinnipiac poll showed Clinton capturing 31 percent of the vote among 18-to-34 voters, only a five-point lead over Donald Trump. Polls in Michigan and Ohio also showed dips in support among young voters. Many young people are telling pollsters that they'll support Libertarian Gary Johnson or Green Jill Stein rather than Clinton or Trump. —NBC News NFL Chief Expresses Support for Anthem ProtestProtests continued among NFL players on Sunday, as the LA Rams's Robert Quinn raised his fist and three Miami Dolphin players kneeled during the National Anthem. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell expressed support for the "productive" protest, saying they were "trying to make things happen in communities." —USA Today Syrian Ceasefire Under Threat After AirstrikesAirstrikes have hit rebel-held parts of Aleppo, threatening a fragile ceasefire deal in Syria. The attacks on Sunday night followed a US air raid in Deraa that killed ten people, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The US military says it may have unintentionally hit Syrian troops while carrying out a raid against ISIS. —Al Jazeera Putin-Backed Party Wins Russian ElectionUnited Russia, the party backed by President Vladimir Putin, has won a clear majority in the county's parliamentary election. With 93 percent of the votes counted, the party has secured 54 percent of the vote, suggesting the party should secure 343 seats in the 450-member parliament. —CNN India Blames Kashmir Attack on PakistanAn attack on an army base in Indian-administered Kashmir has left 17 Indian soldiers and four suspected rebel fighters dead. India's general Ranbir Singh said Sunday's assault bore the hallmarks of Pakistan-based militant group Jaish-e-Mohammed. Pakistan denies sending fighters into Kashmir. —Reuters Angela Merkel's Party Suffers Historic Defeat in BerlinChancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union of Germany Party has lost state elections in Berlin, winning 17.6 percent of the vote, its lowest-ever share. The right-wing, anti-immigrant party Alternative for Germany made significant gains and will enter the state parliament for the first time. —BBC News 'Games of Thrones' Breaks Emmys Record HBO's Game of Thrones has broken the record for the highest number of Emmy Awards ever won by a drama series. It won three Emmys, including Best Drama, taking its total number to 38, beating the previous record of 37 held by Frasier. —TIME 'Sully' Stays at No.1 at Box Office Clint Eastwood's movie Sully—a drama about the pilot who landed a plane on the Hudson River and was briefly a celebrity—stayed at No.1 at the box office for a second week, collecting an estimated $22 million. It brings its total North American take to $70.5 million. —The Wall Street Journal Tributes Paid to Iranian Cyclist in Rio Sunday night's closing ceremony of the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games saw tributes to Iranian cyclist Bahman Golbarnezhad, who died after a crash in the C4-5 road race 24 hours earlier. International Paralympic Committee president Philip Craven said athletes were "united in grief."—CNN Kanye West Joins Instagram The rapper finally joined the picture-sharing app over the weekend and has uploaded just one picture, a still from the movie Total Recall, so far. Kanye already has close to 1 million followers. —Noisey VICE News Reporter Released After Arrest at Trump EventAlex Thompson, a VICE News reporter, was released from a Houston jail on a $500 bond early Sunday morning after being arrested while inquiring about media access at a Donald Trump event at a Houston hotel. Thompson was charged with trespassing. —VICE News Developer Wants to Sue Gamers for Bad ReviewsGames developer Digital Homicide is currently trying to sue 100 anonymous Steam users for $18 million for saying bad things about the company and its games. Steam owner Valve yanked all of Digital Homicide's games off Steam in response. —Motherboard Get the VICE App on iOS and Android