This article originally appeared on Noisey UK.  Look, I know Noisey said the best song of 2016 was "Fuck Donald Trump" by YG & Nipsey Hustle, and we weren't wrong about that. However, sometimes songs from the past can resurface in different times, different contexts, different socio-political landscapes, and take on new meaning. A special place in our hearts must be reserved for them, for though they may not be from our time, they have empowered and supported us through the last twelve months just as much as our modern heroes. One of those such songs is "All Star" by the 90s rock band Smash Mouth from San Jose, California. Not the original version though. No, that would be ridiculous. Instead, the song "All Star" by the 90s rock band Smash Mouth from San Jose, California, has enjoyed a rich and bountiful crop of remixes this year, each alike in dignity. On the fair internet, where we lay our scene, the song "All Star" by the 90s rock band Smash Mouth from San Jose, California, has been propelled to an even greater echelon of cultural significance than it occupied in 1999, when it was first released, or 2001, when it was used to heavily promote the motion picture Shrek. Thanks in large part to a man called Jon Sudano, whom we interviewed about doing god's work earlier this year, "All Star" has become a beacon of hope and joy during a year of bin bags and brimstone. "My world's on fire, how about yours?" Smash Mouth asked, like an old supportive friend, to which we all replied, "Same." Yet, as the universe rolled us harder than ever before, Smash Mouth were also there throughout to cradle us in their sonic arms and whisper "You'll never shine if you don't glow." With that, friends, I shall leave you to ride out the final days of the year with a selection of the finest "All Star" remixes I could find on the internet. I think it goes without saying that the top 20 spots go to all 20 of Jon Sudano's videos, which you can watch here. What follows are ten more in no particular order because ranking Smash Mouth remixes is tantamount to blasphemy. Merry Christmas, all stars! Follow Emma on Twitter.