1. The candidates talk about race in America HOLT: “Last week you said we have to do everything possible to improve policing to go right at implicit bias. Do you believe police are implicitly biassed against black people? HILLARY CLINTON: “I think it’s a problem for everyone, not just police. I think unfortunately, too many of us in our great country jump to conclusions about each other. Therefore, I think we need all of us to be asking hard questions about why am I feeling this way. But when it comes to policing, since it can have fatal consequences. I have said in my first budget, we would put money into that budget to help us deal with implicit bias by retraining a lot of our police officers.” 2. “I have much better judgement than she has” HOLT: “Why is your judgment different than Mrs. Clinton?” 1. The candidates talk about race in America HOLT: “Last week you said we have to do everything possible to improve policing to go right at implicit bias. Do you believe police are implicitly biassed against black people? HILLARY CLINTON: “I think it’s a problem for everyone, not just police. I think unfortunately, too many of us in our great country jump to conclusions about each other. Therefore, I think we need all of us to be asking hard questions about why am I feeling this way. But when it comes to policing, since it can have fatal consequences. I have said in my first budget, we would put money into that budget to help us deal with implicit bias by retraining a lot of our police officers.” 2. “I have much better judgement than she has” HOLT: “Why is your judgment different than Mrs. Clinton?” TRUMP: “I have much better judgment than she has. I also have a much better temperament than she does. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on an advertising — you know, they get Madison Avenue into a room, oh, temperament, let’s go after. I think my strongest asset, maybe by far is my temperament, I have a winning temperament, I know how to win. She does not.” 3. Trump warns of jobs leaving the U.S. TRUMP: “Our jobs are fleeing the country. They’re going to Mexico, they’re going to many other countries, you look at what China is doing to our country, in terms of making our product, they’re devaluing their currency and there’s nobody in our government to fight them. And we have a very good fight, and we have a winning fight, because they’re using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild China and many other countries are doing the same thing. So we’re losing our good jobs, so many of them. When you look at what’s happening in Mexico, a friend of mine who builds plants said it’s the eighth wonder of the world. They’re building some of the biggest plants anywhere in the world, some of the most sophisticated, some of the best plants. With the United States, as he said, not so much. So Ford is leaving. You see that. Their small car division, leaving. Thousands of jobs leaving Michigan, leaving Ohio, they’re all leaving.” 4. Trump: “She doesn’t have the look, the stamina” HOLT: “This year, secretary Clinton became the first woman nominated for president by a major party. [You said] She doesn’t have a presidential look. She’s standing here right now. What did you mean by that? ” TRUMP: “She doesn’t have the look, the stamina. I said she doesn’t have the stamina. And I don’t believe she does have the stamina. To be president of this country, you need tremendous stamina.” HOLT: “The quote was — TRUMP: “Wait a minute, you asked me a question. You have to be able to negotiate our trade deals. You have to be able to negotiate. That’s right, with Japan, with Saudi Arabia, I mean, could you imagine, we’re defending Saudi Arabia, and with all of the money they have, we’re defending them, and they’re not paying. All you have to do is speak to them.” 5. Clinton on Trump’s “troubling” attitude toward nuclear weapons HILLARY: “[Trump’s] cavalier attitude about nuclear weapons, is so deeply troubling. That is the number one threat we face in the world. And it becomes particularly threatening if terrorists ever get their hands on any nuclear material. A man who can be provoked by a tweet, should not have his fingers anywhere near the nuclear codes as far as I think anyone with any sense about this should be concerned.” TRUMP: “That line’s getting a little bit old. I must say.” HILLARY: “It’s a good one, though, well describes the problem.” TRUMP: “It’s not an accurate one. I want to give a lot of things, just to respond. I agree with her on one thing, the single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament, nuclear weapons. Not global warming, like you think and your president thinks. Nuclear is the single greatest threat, just to go down the list, we defend Japan, we defend Germany, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, we defend countries.” 6. Trump takes on Hillary’s tax plans TRUMP: “You are going to approve one of the biggest tax cuts in history. You are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. You are going to drive business out. Your regulations are a disaster and you’re going to increase regulations all over the place. And by the way, my tax cut is the biggest since Ronald Reagan. I’m very proud of it. It will create tremendous numbers of new jobs. But regulations, you are going to regulate these businesses out of existence.” 7. On the effectiveness of trickle-down economics CLINTON “As I said, trumped up trickle-down. Trickle-down did not work. It got us into the mess we were in in 2008 and ‘9. Slashing taxes on the wealthy hasn’t worked and a lot of really smart, wealthy people know that. And they are saying, hey, we need to do more to keep the contributions we should be making to rebuild the middle class. I don’t think top-down works in America. I think building the middle class, investing in the middle class, making college debt free so more young people can get their education. Helping people refinance their debt from college at a lower rate. Those are the kind of things that will really boost the economy. Broad-based, inclusive growth is what we need in America. Not more advantages for people at the very top. ” HOLT: “Mr. Trump — TRUMP: “Typical politician. All talk, no action. Sounds good, doesn’t work. Never going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like secretary Clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what’s going on.” 8. What happens after election day? HOLT: “One of you will not win this election. My final question, are you willing to accept the outcome as the will of the voters?” CLINTON: “I support our democracy. And sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. But I certainly will support the outcome of this election, and I know Donald’s trying very hard to plant doubts about it, but I hope the people out there understand, this election’s really up to you. It’s not about us. So much as it is about you, and your families and the kind of country and future you want. So I sure hope you will get out and vote as though your future depended on it, because I think it does.” HOLT: “Mr. Trump, very quickly. Will you accept the outcome of the will of the voters?” TRUMP: “I want to make America great again. We’re losing our jobs, people are pouring into our country. The other day, we were deporting 800 people, perhaps they passed the wrong button or it was corruption, these people we were going to deport for good reason ended up becoming citizens. And it was 800, and now it turns out it might be 1800, and they don’t even know.” HOLT: ” Will you accept the outcome of the election –” TRUMP: “I want to make America great again. I will be able to do it, I don’t believe Hillary will. The answer is, if she wins, I will absolutely support her.